---
slug: Name-Help
---

`C-h f function RET` (`describe-function`) displays the documentation of Lisp function `function`, in a window. Since commands are Lisp functions, you can use this method to view the documentation of any command whose name you know. For example,

```lisp
C-h f auto-fill-mode RET
```

displays the documentation of `auto-fill-mode`. This is the only way to get the documentation of a command that is not bound to any key (one which you would normally run using `M-x`).

`C-h f` is also useful for Lisp functions that you use in a Lisp program. For example, if you have just written the expression `(make-vector len)` and want to check that you are using `make-vector` properly, type `C-h f make-vector RET`. Because `C-h f` allows all function names, not just command names, you may find that some of your favorite completion abbreviations that work in `M-x` don’t work in `C-h f`. An abbreviation that is unique among command names may not be unique among all function names.

If you type `C-h f RET`, it describes the function called by the innermost Lisp expression in the buffer around point, *provided* that function name is a valid, defined Lisp function. (That name appears as the default while you enter the argument.) For example, if point is located following the text ‘`(make-vector (car x)`’, the innermost list containing point is the one that starts with ‘`(make-vector`’, so `C-h f RET` describes the function `make-vector`.

`C-h f` is also useful just to verify that you spelled a function name correctly. If the minibuffer prompt for `C-h f` shows the function name from the buffer as the default, it means that name is defined as a Lisp function. Type `C-g` to cancel the `C-h f` command if you don’t really want to view the documentation.

`C-h v` (`describe-variable`) is like `C-h f` but describes Lisp variables instead of Lisp functions. Its default is the Lisp symbol around or before point, if that is the name of a defined Lisp variable. See [Variables](/docs/emacs/Variables).

Help buffers that describe Emacs variables and functions normally have hyperlinks to the corresponding source code, if you have the source files installed (see [Hyperlinking](/docs/emacs/Hyperlinking)).

To find a command’s documentation in a manual, use `C-h F` (`Info-goto-emacs-command-node`). This knows about various manuals, not just the Emacs manual, and finds the right one.

`C-h o` (`describe-symbol`) is like `C-h f` and `C-h v`, but it describes any symbol, be it a function, a variable, or a face. If the symbol has more than one definition, like it has both definition as a function and as a variable, this command will show the documentation of all of them, one after the other.
