---
slug: Apropos
---

The *apropos* commands answer questions like, “What are the commands for working with files?" More precisely, you specify an *apropos pattern*, which means either a word, a list of words, or a regular expression.

Each of the following apropos commands reads an apropos pattern in the minibuffer, searches for items that match the pattern, and displays the results in a different window.

### `C-h a`

Search for commands (`apropos-command`). With a prefix argument, search for noninteractive functions too.

### `M-x apropos`

Search for functions and variables. Both interactive functions (commands) and noninteractive functions can be found by this.

### `M-x apropos-user-option`

Search for user-customizable variables. With a prefix argument, search for non-customizable variables too.

### `M-x apropos-variable`

Search for variables. With a prefix argument, search for customizable variables only.

### `M-x apropos-local-variable`

Search for buffer-local variables.

### `M-x apropos-value`

Search for variables whose values match the specified pattern. With a prefix argument, search also for functions with definitions matching the pattern, and Lisp symbols with properties matching the pattern.

### `M-x apropos-local-value`

Search for buffer-local variables whose values match the specified pattern.

### `C-h d`

Search for functions and variables whose documentation strings match the specified pattern (`apropos-documentation`).

The simplest kind of apropos pattern is one word. Anything containing that word matches the pattern. Thus, to find commands that work on files, type `C-h a file RET`. This displays a list of all command names that contain ‘`file`’, including `copy-file`, `find-file`, and so on. Each command name comes with a brief description and a list of keys you can currently invoke it with. In our example, it would say that you can invoke `find-file` by typing `C-x C-f`.

For more information about a function definition, variable or symbol property listed in an apropos buffer, you can click on it with `mouse-1` or `mouse-2`, or move there and type `RET`.

When you specify more than one word in the apropos pattern, a name must contain at least two of the words in order to match. Thus, if you are looking for commands to kill a chunk of text before point, you could try `C-h a kill back backward behind before RET`. The real command name `kill-backward` will match that; if there were a command `kill-text-before`, it would also match, since it contains two of the specified words.

For even greater flexibility, you can specify a regular expression (see [Regexps](Regexps)). An apropos pattern is interpreted as a regular expression if it contains any of the regular expression special characters, ‘`^$*+?.\[`’.

Following the conventions for naming Emacs commands, here are some words that you’ll find useful in apropos patterns. By using them in `C-h a`, you will also get a feel for the naming conventions.

> char, line, word, sentence, paragraph, region, page, sexp, list, defun, rect, buffer, frame, window, face, file, dir, register, mode, beginning, end, forward, backward, next, previous, up, down, search, goto, kill, delete, mark, insert, yank, fill, indent, case, change, set, what, list, find, view, describe, default.

If the variable `apropos-do-all` is non-`nil`, most apropos commands behave as if they had been given a prefix argument. There is one exception: `apropos-variable` without a prefix argument will always search for all variables, no matter what the value of `apropos-do-all` is.

By default, all apropos commands except `apropos-documentation` list their results in alphabetical order. If the variable `apropos-sort-by-scores` is non-`nil`, these commands instead try to guess the relevance of each result, and display the most relevant ones first. The `apropos-documentation` command lists its results in order of relevance by default; to list them in alphabetical order, change the variable `apropos-documentation-sort-by-scores` to `nil`.
