---
slug: Secondary-Selection
---

In addition to the primary selection, the X Window System provides a second similar facility known as the *secondary selection*. Nowadays, few X applications make use of the secondary selection, but you can access it using the following Emacs commands:

### `M-Drag-mouse-1`

Set the secondary selection, with one end at the place where you press down the button, and the other end at the place where you release it (`mouse-set-secondary`). The selected text is highlighted, using the `secondary-selection` face, as you drag. The window scrolls automatically if you drag the mouse off the top or bottom of the window, just like `mouse-set-region` (see [Mouse Commands](Mouse-Commands)).

This command does not alter the kill ring.

### `M-mouse-1`

Set one endpoint for the *secondary selection* (`mouse-start-secondary`); use `M-mouse-3` to set the other end and complete the selection. This command cancels any existing secondary selection, when it starts a new one.

### `M-mouse-3`

Set the secondary selection (`mouse-secondary-save-then-kill`), with one end at the position you click `M-mouse-3`, and the other at the position specified previously with `M-mouse-1`. This also puts the selected text in the kill ring. A second `M-mouse-3` at the same place kills the text selected by the secondary selection just made.

### `M-mouse-2`

Insert the secondary selection where you click, placing point at the end of the yanked text (`mouse-yank-secondary`).

Double or triple clicking of `M-mouse-1` operates on words and lines, much like `mouse-1`.

If `mouse-yank-at-point` is non-`nil`, `M-mouse-2` yanks at point. Then it does not matter precisely where you click, or even which of the frame’s windows you click on. See [Mouse Commands](Mouse-Commands).
