---
slug: Text-Display
---

Most characters are *printing characters*: when they appear in a buffer, they are displayed literally on the screen. Printing characters include ASCII numbers, letters, and punctuation characters, as well as many non-ASCII characters.

The ASCII character set contains non-printing *control characters*. Two of these are displayed specially: the newline character (Unicode code point `U+000A`) is displayed by starting a new line, while the tab character (`U+0009`) is displayed as a space that extends to the next tab stop column (normally every 8 columns). The number of spaces per tab is controlled by the buffer-local variable `tab-width`, which must have an integer value between 1 and 1000, inclusive. Note that the way the tab character in the buffer is displayed has nothing to do with the definition of `TAB` as a command.

Other ASCII control characters, whose codes are below `U+0020` (octal 40, decimal 32), are displayed as a caret (‘`^`’) followed by the non-control version of the character, with the `escape-glyph` face. For instance, the ‘`control-A`’ character, `U+0001`, is displayed as ‘`^A`’.

The raw bytes with codes `U+0080` (octal 200) through `U+009F` (octal 237) are displayed as *octal escape sequences*, with the `escape-glyph` face. For instance, character code `U+0098` (octal 230) is displayed as ‘`\230`’. If you change the buffer-local variable `ctl-arrow` to `nil`, the ASCII control characters are also displayed as octal escape sequences instead of caret escape sequences. (You can also request that raw bytes be shown in hex, see [display-raw-bytes-as-hex](Display-Custom).)

Some non-ASCII characters have the same appearance as an ASCII space or hyphen (minus) character. Such characters can cause problems if they are entered into a buffer without your realization, e.g., by yanking; for instance, source code compilers typically do not treat non-ASCII spaces as whitespace characters. To deal with this problem, Emacs displays such characters specially: it displays `U+00A0` (no-break space) with the `nobreak-space` face, and it displays `U+00AD` (soft hyphen), `U+2010` (hyphen), and `U+2011` (non-breaking hyphen) with the `nobreak-hyphen` face. To disable this, change the variable `nobreak-char-display` to `nil`. If you give this variable a non-`nil` and non-`t` value, Emacs instead displays such characters as a highlighted backslash followed by a space or hyphen.

You can customize the way any particular character code is displayed by means of a display table. See [Display Tables](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/elisp.html#Display-Tables) in The Emacs Lisp Reference Manual.

On graphical displays, some characters may have no glyphs in any of the fonts available to Emacs. These *glyphless characters* are normally displayed as boxes containing the hexadecimal character code. Similarly, on text terminals, characters that cannot be displayed using the terminal encoding (see [Terminal Coding](Terminal-Coding)) are normally displayed as question signs. You can control the display method by customizing the variable `glyphless-char-display-control`. You can also customize the `glyphless-char` face to make these characters more prominent on display. See [Glyphless Character Display](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/elisp.html#Glyphless-Chars) in The Emacs Lisp Reference Manual, for details.

Emacs tries to determine if the curved quotes ‘`‘`’ and ‘`’`’ can be displayed on the current display. By default, if this seems to be so, then Emacs will translate the ASCII quotes (‘`` ` ``’ and ‘`'`’), when they appear in messages and help texts, to these curved quotes. You can influence or inhibit this translation by customizing the user option `text-quoting-style` (see [Keys in Documentation](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/elisp.html#Keys-in-Documentation) in The Emacs Lisp Reference Manual).

If the curved quotes `‘`, `’`, `“`, and `”` are known to look just like ASCII characters, they are shown with the `homoglyph` face. Curved quotes that are known not to be displayable are shown as their ASCII approximations `` ` ``, `'`, and `"` with the `homoglyph` face.
