---
slug: Recentering
---

### `C-l`

Scroll the selected window so the current line is the center-most text line; on subsequent consecutive invocations, make the current line the top line, the bottom line, and so on in cyclic order. Possibly redisplay the screen too (`recenter-top-bottom`).

### `M-x recenter`

Scroll the selected window so the current line is the center-most text line. Possibly redisplay the screen too.

### `C-M-l`

Scroll heuristically to bring useful information onto the screen (`reposition-window`).

The `C-l` (`recenter-top-bottom`) command *recenters* the selected window, scrolling it so that the current screen line is exactly in the center of the window, or as close to the center as possible.

Typing `C-l` twice in a row (`C-l C-l`) scrolls the window so that point is on the topmost screen line. Typing a third `C-l` scrolls the window so that point is on the bottom-most screen line. Each successive `C-l` cycles through these three positions.

You can change the cycling order by customizing the list variable `recenter-positions`. Each list element should be the symbol `top`, `middle`, or `bottom`, or a number; an integer means to move the line to the specified screen line, while a floating-point number between 0.0 and 1.0 specifies a percentage of the screen space from the top of the window. The default, `(middle top bottom)`, is the cycling order described above. Furthermore, if you change the variable `scroll-margin` to a non-zero value `n`, `C-l` always leaves at least `n` screen lines between point and the top or bottom of the window (see [Auto Scrolling](/docs/emacs/Auto-Scrolling)).

You can also give `C-l` a prefix argument. A plain prefix argument, `C-u C-l`, simply recenters the line showing point. A positive argument `n` moves line showing point `n` lines down from the top of the window. An argument of zero moves point’s line to the top of the window. A negative argument -`n` moves point’s line `n` lines from the bottom of the window. When given an argument, `C-l` does not clear the screen or cycle through different screen positions.

If the variable `recenter-redisplay` has a non-`nil` value, each invocation of `C-l` also clears and redisplays the screen; the special value `tty` (the default) says to do this on text-terminal frames only. Redisplaying is useful in case the screen becomes garbled for any reason (see [Screen Garbled](/docs/emacs/Screen-Garbled)).

The more primitive command `M-x recenter` behaves like `recenter-top-bottom`, but does not cycle among screen positions.

`C-M-l` (`reposition-window`) scrolls the current window heuristically in a way designed to get useful information onto the screen. For example, in a Lisp file, this command tries to get the entire current defun onto the screen if possible.
