---
slug: Other-Repeating-Search
---

Here are some other commands that find matches for a regular expression. They all ignore case in matching, if the pattern contains no upper-case letters and `case-fold-search` is non-`nil`. Aside from `multi-occur` and `multi-occur-in-matching-buffers`, which always search the whole buffer, all operate on the text from point to the end of the buffer, or on the region if it is active.

### `M-x multi-isearch-buffers`

Prompt for one or more buffer names, ending with `RET`; then, begin a multi-buffer incremental search in those buffers. (If the search fails in one buffer, the next `C-s` tries searching the next specified buffer, and so forth.) With a prefix argument, prompt for a regexp and begin a multi-buffer incremental search in buffers matching that regexp.

### `M-x multi-isearch-buffers-regexp`

This command is just like `multi-isearch-buffers`, except it performs an incremental regexp search.

### `M-x multi-isearch-files`

Prompt for one or more file names, ending with `RET`; then, begin a multi-file incremental search in those files. (If the search fails in one file, the next `C-s` tries searching the next specified file, and so forth.) With a prefix argument, prompt for a regexp and begin a multi-file incremental search in files matching that regexp.

### `M-x multi-isearch-files-regexp`

This command is just like `multi-isearch-files`, except it performs an incremental regexp search.

In some modes that set the buffer-local variable `multi-isearch-next-buffer-function` (e.g., in Change Log mode) a multi-file incremental search is activated automatically.

### `M-x occur`

### `M-s o`

Prompt for a regexp, and display a list showing each line in the buffer that contains a match for it. If you type `M-n` at the prompt, you can reuse search strings from previous incremental searches. The text that matched is highlighted using the `match` face. A numeric argument `n` specifies that `n` lines of context are to be displayed before and after each matching line.

The default number of context lines is specified by the variable `list-matching-lines-default-context-lines`. When `list-matching-lines-jump-to-current-line` is non-`nil` the current line is shown highlighted with face `list-matching-lines-current-line-face` and the point is set at the first match after such line.

You can also run `M-s o` when an incremental search is active; this uses the current search string.

Note that matches for the regexp you type are extended to include complete lines, and a match that starts before the previous match ends is not considered a match.

In the `*Occur*` buffer, you can click on each entry, or move point there and type `RET`, to visit the corresponding position in the buffer that was searched. `o` and `C-o` display the match in another window; `C-o` does not select it. Alternatively, you can use the `M-g M-n` (`next-error`) command to visit the occurrences one by one (see [Compilation Mode](Compilation-Mode)).

Typing `e` in the `*Occur*` buffer switches to Occur Edit mode, in which edits made to the entries are also applied to the text in the originating buffer. Type `C-c C-c` to return to Occur mode.

The command `M-x list-matching-lines` is a synonym for `M-x occur`.

### `M-x multi-occur`

This command is just like `occur`, except it is able to search through multiple buffers. It asks you to specify the buffer names one by one.

### `M-x multi-occur-in-matching-buffers`

This command is similar to `multi-occur`, except the buffers to search are specified by a regular expression that matches visited file names. With a prefix argument, it uses the regular expression to match buffer names instead.

### `M-x how-many`

Prompt for a regexp, and print the number of matches for it in the buffer after point. If the region is active, this operates on the region instead.

### `M-x flush-lines`

Prompt for a regexp, and delete each line that contains a match for it, operating on the text after point. When the command finishes, it prints the number of deleted matching lines.

This command deletes the current line if it contains a match starting after point. If the region is active, it operates on the region instead; if a line partially contained in the region contains a match entirely contained in the region, it is deleted.

If a match is split across lines, `flush-lines` deletes all those lines. It deletes the lines before starting to look for the next match; hence, it ignores a match starting on the same line at which another match ended.

### `M-x keep-lines`

Prompt for a regexp, and delete each line that *does not* contain a match for it, operating on the text after point. If point is not at the beginning of a line, this command always keeps the current line. If the region is active, the command operates on the region instead; it never deletes lines that are only partially contained in the region (a newline that ends a line counts as part of that line).

If a match is split across lines, this command keeps all those lines.
