---
slug: Replacement-and-Lax-Matches
---

This subsection describes the behavior of replace commands with respect to lax matches (see [Lax Search](Lax-Search)) and how to customize it. In general, replace commands mostly default to stricter matching than their search counterparts.

Unlike incremental search, the replacement commands do not use lax space matching (see [lax space matching](Lax-Search)) by default. To enable lax space matching for replacement, change the variable `replace-lax-whitespace` to non-`nil`. (This only affects how Emacs finds the text to replace, not the replacement text.)

A companion variable `replace-regexp-lax-whitespace` controls whether `query-replace-regexp` uses lax whitespace matching when searching for patterns.

If the first argument of a replace command is all lower case, the command ignores case while searching for occurrences to replace—provided `case-fold-search` is non-`nil` and `search-upper-case` is also non-`nil`. If `search-upper-case` (see [search-upper-case](Lax-Search)) is `nil`, whether searching ignores case is determined by `case-fold-search` alone, regardless of letter-case of the command’s first argument. If `case-fold-search` is set to `nil`, case is always significant in all searches.

In addition, when the `newstring` argument is all or partly lower case, replacement commands try to preserve the case pattern of each occurrence. Thus, the command

```lisp
M-x replace-string RET foo RET bar RET
```

replaces a lower case ‘`foo`’ with a lower case ‘`bar`’, an all-caps ‘`FOO`’ with ‘`BAR`’, and a capitalized ‘`Foo`’ with ‘`Bar`’. (These three alternatives—lower case, all caps, and capitalized, are the only ones that `replace-string` can distinguish.)

If upper-case letters are used in the replacement string, they remain upper case every time that text is inserted. If upper-case letters are used in the first argument, the second argument is always substituted exactly as given, with no case conversion. Likewise, if either `case-replace` or `case-fold-search` is set to `nil`, replacement is done without case conversion.

The replacement commands by default do not use character folding (see [character folding](Lax-Search)) when looking for the text to replace. To enable character folding for matching in `query-replace` and `replace-string`, set the variable `replace-char-fold` to a non-`nil` value. (This setting does not affect the replacement text, only how Emacs finds the text to replace. It also doesn’t affect `replace-regexp`.)
