---
slug: Search-Customizations
---

This section describes miscellaneous search-related customizations not described elsewhere.

The default search mode for the incremental search is specified by the variable `search-default-mode`. It can be `nil`, `t`, or a function. If it is `nil`, the default mode is to do literal searches without character folding, but with case folding and lax-whitespace matches as determined by `case-fold-search` and `search-whitespace-regexp`, respectively (see [Lax Search](Lax-Search)). If the value is `t`, incremental search defaults to regexp searches. The default value specifies a function that only performs case folding and lax-whitespace matching.

The current match of an on-going incremental search is highlighted using the `isearch` face. This highlighting can be disabled by setting the variable `search-highlight` to `nil`.

The other matches for the search string that are visible on display are highlighted using the `lazy-highlight` face. Setting the variable `isearch-lazy-highlight` to `nil` disables this highlighting. Here are some other variables that customize the lazy highlighting:

### `lazy-highlight-initial-delay`

Time in seconds to wait before highlighting visible matches.

### `lazy-highlight-interval`

Time in seconds between highlighting successive matches.

### `lazy-highlight-max-at-a-time`

The maximum number of matches to highlight before checking for input. A large number can take some time to highlight, so if you want to continue searching and type `C-s` or `C-r` during that time, Emacs will not respond until it finishes highlighting all those matches. Thus, smaller values make Emacs more responsive.

### `isearch-lazy-count`

Show the current match number and the total number of matches in the search prompt.

### `lazy-count-prefix-format`

### `lazy-count-suffix-format`

These two variables determine the format of showing the current and the total number of matches for `isearch-lazy-count`.

Normally, entering `RET` within incremental search when the search string is empty launches a nonincremental search. (Actually, it lets you edit the search string, and the next `RET` does the search.) However, if you customize the variable `search-nonincremental-instead` to `nil`, typing `RET` will always exit the incremental search, even if the search string is empty.

By default, incremental search and query-replace commands match invisible text, but hide any such matches as soon as the current match moves off the invisible text. If you customize the variable `isearch-hide-immediately` to `nil`, any invisible text where matches were found stays on display until the search or the replace command exits.

Searching incrementally on slow terminals, such as displays connected to remote machines over slow connection, could be annoying due to the need to redraw large portions of the display as the search proceeds. Emacs provides a special display mode for slow terminals, whereby search pops up a separate small window and displays the text surrounding the match in that window. Small windows display faster, so the annoying effect of slow speed is alleviated. The variable `search-slow-speed` determines the baud rate threshold below which Emacs will use this display mode. The variable `search-slow-window-lines` controls the number of lines in the window Emacs pops up for displaying the search results; the default is 1 line. Normally, this window will pop up at the bottom of the window that displays the buffer where you start searching, but if the value of `search-slow-window-lines` is negative, that means to put the window at the top and give it the number of lines that is the absolute value of `search-slow-window-lines`.
