---
slug: Symbol-Search
---

A *symbol search* is much like an ordinary search, except that the boundaries of the search must match the boundaries of a symbol. The meaning of *symbol* in this context depends on the major mode, and usually refers to a source code token, such as a Lisp symbol in Emacs Lisp mode. For instance, if you perform an incremental symbol search for the Lisp symbol `forward-word`, it would not match `isearch-forward-word`. This feature is thus mainly useful for searching source code.

### `M-s _`

If incremental search is active, toggle symbol search mode (`isearch-toggle-symbol`); otherwise, begin an incremental forward symbol search (`isearch-forward-symbol`).

### `M-s .`

Start a symbol incremental search forward with the symbol found near point added to the search string initially.

### `M-s _ RET symbol RET`

Search forward for `symbol`, nonincrementally.

### `M-s _ C-r RET symbol RET`

Search backward for `symbol`, nonincrementally.

To begin a forward incremental symbol search, type `M-s _` (or `M-s .` if the symbol to search is near point). If incremental search is not already active, `M-s _` runs the command `isearch-forward-symbol` and `M-s .` runs the command `isearch-forward-symbol-at-point`. With a numeric prefix argument of `n`, `M-s .` will search for the `n`the next occurrence of the symbol at point; negative values of `n` search backwards. If incremental search is already active, `M-s _` switches to a symbol search, preserving the direction of the search and the current search string; you can disable symbol search by typing `M-s _` again. In incremental symbol search, while you are typing the search string, only the beginning of the search string is required to match the beginning of a symbol, and ‘`Pending`’ appears in the search prompt until you use a search repeating key like `C-s`.

To begin a nonincremental symbol search, type `M-s _ RET` for a forward search, or `M-s _ C-r RET` or a backward search. In nonincremental symbol searches, the beginning and end of the search string are required to match the beginning and end of a symbol, respectively.

The symbol search commands don’t perform character folding, and toggling lax whitespace matching (see [lax space matching](/docs/emacs/Lax-Search)) has no effect on them.
