---
slug: Save-Keyboard-Macro
---

### `C-x C-k n`

Give a command name (for the duration of the Emacs session) to the most recently defined keyboard macro (`kmacro-name-last-macro`).

### `C-x C-k b`

Bind the most recently defined keyboard macro to a key sequence (for the duration of the session) (`kmacro-bind-to-key`).

### `M-x insert-kbd-macro`

Insert in the buffer a keyboard macro’s definition, as Lisp code.

If you wish to save a keyboard macro for later use, you can give it a name using `C-x C-k n` (`kmacro-name-last-macro`). This reads a name as an argument using the minibuffer and defines that name to execute the last keyboard macro, in its current form. (If you later add to the definition of this macro, that does not alter the name’s definition as a macro.) The macro name is a Lisp symbol, and defining it in this way makes it a valid command name for calling with `M-x` or for binding a key to with `global-set-key` (see [Keymaps](/docs/emacs/Keymaps)). If you specify a name that has a prior definition other than a keyboard macro, an error message is shown and nothing is changed.

You can also bind the last keyboard macro (in its current form) to a key, using `C-x C-k b` (`kmacro-bind-to-key`) followed by the key sequence you want to bind. You can bind to any key sequence in the global keymap, but since most key sequences already have other bindings, you should select the key sequence carefully. If you try to bind to a key sequence with an existing binding (in any keymap), this command asks you for confirmation before replacing the existing binding.

To avoid problems caused by overriding existing bindings, the key sequences `C-x C-k 0` through `C-x C-k 9` and `C-x C-k A` through `C-x C-k Z` are reserved for your own keyboard macro bindings. In fact, to bind to one of these key sequences, you only need to type the digit or letter rather than the whole key sequences. For example,

```lisp
C-x C-k b 4
```

will bind the last keyboard macro to the key sequence `C-x C-k 4`.

Once a macro has a command name, you can save its definition in a file. Then it can be used in another editing session. First, visit the file you want to save the definition in. Then use this command:

```lisp
M-x insert-kbd-macro RET macroname RET
```

This inserts some Lisp code that, when executed later, will define the same macro with the same definition it has now. (You don’t need to understand Lisp code to do this, because `insert-kbd-macro` writes the Lisp code for you.) Then save the file. You can load the file later with `load-file` (see [Lisp Libraries](/docs/emacs/Lisp-Libraries)). If the file you save in is your init file `~/.emacs` (see [Init File](/docs/emacs/Init-File)) then the macro will be defined each time you run Emacs.

If you give `insert-kbd-macro` a prefix argument, it makes additional Lisp code to record the keys (if any) that you have bound to `macroname`, so that the macro will be reassigned the same keys when you load the file.
