---
slug: File-Names
---

Many Emacs commands that operate on a file require you to specify the file name, using the minibuffer (see [Minibuffer File](Minibuffer-File)).

While in the minibuffer, you can use the usual completion and history commands (see [Minibuffer](Minibuffer)). Note that file name completion ignores file names whose extensions appear in the variable `completion-ignored-extensions` (see [Completion Options](Completion-Options)). Note also that most commands use permissive completion with confirmation for reading file names: you are allowed to submit a nonexistent file name, but if you type `RET` immediately after completing up to a nonexistent file name, Emacs prints ‘`[Confirm]`’ and you must type a second `RET` to confirm. See [Completion Exit](Completion-Exit), for details.

Minibuffer history commands offer some special features for reading file names, see [Minibuffer History](Minibuffer-History).

Each buffer has a *default directory*, stored in the buffer-local variable `default-directory`. Whenever Emacs reads a file name using the minibuffer, it usually inserts the default directory into the minibuffer as the initial contents. You can inhibit this insertion by changing the variable `insert-default-directory` to `nil` (see [Minibuffer File](Minibuffer-File)). Regardless, Emacs always assumes that any relative file name is relative to the default directory, e.g., entering a file name without a directory specifies a file in the default directory.

When you visit a file, Emacs sets `default-directory` in the visiting buffer to the directory of its file. When you create a new buffer that is not visiting a file, via a command like `C-x b`, its default directory is usually copied from the buffer that was current at the time (see [Select Buffer](Select-Buffer)). You can use the command `M-x pwd` to see the value of `default-directory` in the current buffer. The command `M-x cd` prompts for a directory’s name, and sets the buffer’s `default-directory` to that directory (doing this does not change the buffer’s file name, if any).

As an example, when you visit the file `/u/rms/gnu/gnu.tasks`, the default directory is set to `/u/rms/gnu/`. If you invoke a command that reads a file name, entering just ‘`foo`’ in the minibuffer, with a directory omitted, specifies the file `/u/rms/gnu/foo`; entering ‘`../.login`’ specifies `/u/rms/.login`; and entering ‘`new/foo`’ specifies `/u/rms/gnu/new/foo`.

When typing a file name into the minibuffer, you can make use of a couple of shortcuts: a double slash ignores everything before the second slash in the pair, and ‘`~/`’ is your home directory. See [Minibuffer File](Minibuffer-File).

The character ‘`$`’ is used to substitute an environment variable into a file name. The name of the environment variable consists of all the alphanumeric characters after the ‘`$`’; alternatively, it can be enclosed in braces after the ‘`$`’. For example, if you have used the shell command `export FOO=rms/hacks` to set up an environment variable named `FOO`, then both `/u/$FOO/test.c` and `/u/${FOO}/test.c` are abbreviations for `/u/rms/hacks/test.c`. If the environment variable is not defined, no substitution occurs, so that the character ‘`$`’ stands for itself. Note that environment variables set outside Emacs affect Emacs only if they are applied before Emacs is started.

To access a file with ‘`$`’ in its name, if the ‘`$`’ causes expansion, type ‘`$$`’. This pair is converted to a single ‘`$`’ at the same time that variable substitution is performed for a single ‘`$`’. Alternatively, quote the whole file name with ‘`/:`’ (see [Quoted File Names](Quoted-File-Names)). File names which begin with a literal ‘`~`’ should also be quoted with ‘`/:`’.

You can include non-ASCII characters in file names. See [File Name Coding](File-Name-Coding).
