---
slug: Remote-Files
---

You can refer to files on other machines using a special file name syntax:

```lisp
/method:host:filename
/method:user@host:filename
/method:user@host#port:filename
```

To carry out this request, Emacs uses a remote-login program such as `ssh`. You must always specify in the file name which method to use—for example, `/ssh:user@host:filename` uses `ssh`. When you specify the pseudo method ‘`-`’ in the file name, Emacs chooses the method as follows:

1.  If the host name starts with ‘`ftp.`’ (with dot), Emacs uses FTP.
2.  If the user name is ‘`ftp`’ or ‘`anonymous`’, Emacs uses FTP.
3.  If the variable `tramp-default-method` is set to ‘`ftp`’, Emacs uses FTP.
4.  If `ssh-agent` is running, Emacs uses `scp`.
5.  Otherwise, Emacs uses `ssh`.

You can entirely turn off the remote file name feature by setting the variable `tramp-mode` to `nil`. You can turn off the feature in individual cases by quoting the file name with ‘`/:`’ (see [Quoted File Names](Quoted-File-Names)).

Remote file access through FTP is handled by the Ange-FTP package, which is documented in the following. Remote file access through the other methods is handled by the Tramp package, which has its own manual. See [The Tramp Manual](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/tramp.html#Top) in The Tramp Manual.

When the Ange-FTP package is used, Emacs logs in through FTP using the name `user`, if that is specified in the remote file name. If `user` is unspecified, Emacs logs in using your user name on the local system; but if you set the variable `ange-ftp-default-user` to a string, that string is used instead. When logging in, Emacs may also ask for a password.

For performance reasons, Emacs does not make backup files for files accessed via FTP by default. To make it do so, change the variable `ange-ftp-make-backup-files` to a non-`nil` value.

By default, auto-save files for remote files are made in the temporary file directory on the local machine, as specified by the variable `auto-save-file-name-transforms`. See [Auto Save Files](Auto-Save-Files).

To visit files accessible by anonymous FTP, you use special user names ‘`anonymous`’ or ‘`ftp`’. Passwords for these user names are handled specially. The variable `ange-ftp-generate-anonymous-password` controls what happens: if the value of this variable is a string, then that string is used as the password; if non-`nil` (the default), then the value of `user-mail-address` is used; if `nil`, then Emacs prompts you for a password as usual (see [Passwords](Passwords)).

Sometimes you may be unable to access files on a remote machine because a *firewall* in between blocks the connection for security reasons. If you can log in on a *gateway* machine from which the target files *are* accessible, and whose FTP server supports gatewaying features, you can still use remote file names; all you have to do is specify the name of the gateway machine by setting the variable `ange-ftp-gateway-host`, and set `ange-ftp-smart-gateway` to `t`. Otherwise you may be able to make remote file names work, but the procedure is complex. You can read the instructions by typing `M-x finder-commentary RET ange-ftp RET`.
