---
slug: File-Name-Cache
---

You can use the *file name cache* to make it easy to locate a file by name, without having to remember exactly where it is located. When typing a file name in the minibuffer, `C-TAB` (`file-cache-minibuffer-complete`) completes it using the file name cache. If you repeat `C-TAB`, that cycles through the possible completions of what you had originally typed. (However, note that the `C-TAB` character cannot be typed on most text terminals.)

The file name cache does not fill up automatically. Instead, you load file names into the cache using these commands:

### `M-x file-cache-add-directory RET directory RET`

Add each file name in `directory` to the file name cache.

### `M-x file-cache-add-directory-using-find RET directory RET`

Add each file name in `directory` and all of its nested subdirectories to the file name cache.

### `M-x file-cache-add-directory-using-locate RET directory RET`

Add each file name in `directory` and all of its nested subdirectories to the file name cache, using `locate` to find them all.

### `M-x file-cache-add-directory-list RET variable RET`

Add each file name in each directory listed in `variable` to the file name cache. `variable` should be a Lisp variable whose value is a list of directories, like `load-path`.

### `M-x file-cache-clear-cache RET`

Clear the cache; that is, remove all file names from it.

The file name cache is not persistent: it is kept and maintained only for the duration of the Emacs session. You can view the contents of the cache with the `file-cache-display` command.
