---
slug: Quoted-File-Names
---

You can *quote* an absolute file name to prevent special characters and syntax in it from having their special effects. The way to do this is to add ‘`/:`’ at the beginning.

For example, you can quote a local file name which appears remote, to prevent it from being treated as a remote file name. Thus, if you have a directory named `/foo:` and a file named `bar` in it, you can refer to that file in Emacs as ‘`/:/foo:/bar`’.

If you want to quote only special characters in the local part of a remote file name, you can quote just the local part. ‘`/ssh:baz:/:/foo:/bar`’ refers to the file `bar` of directory `/foo:` on the host `baz`.

‘`/:`’ can also prevent ‘`~`’ from being treated as a special character for a user’s home directory. For example, `/:/tmp/~hack` refers to a file whose name is `~hack` in directory `/tmp`.

Quoting with ‘`/:`’ is also a way to enter in the minibuffer a file name that contains ‘`$`’. In order for this to work, the ‘`/:`’ must be at the beginning of the minibuffer contents. (You can also double each ‘`$`’; see [File Names with $](/docs/emacs/File-Names-with-_0024).)

You can also quote wildcard characters with ‘`/:`’, for visiting. For example, `/:/tmp/foo*bar` visits the file `/tmp/foo*bar`.

Another method of getting the same result is to enter `/tmp/foo[*]bar`, which is a wildcard specification that matches only `/tmp/foo*bar`. However, in many cases there is no need to quote the wildcard characters because even unquoted they give the right result. For example, if the only file name in `/tmp` that starts with ‘`foo`’ and ends with ‘`bar`’ is `foo*bar`, then specifying `/tmp/foo*bar` will visit only `/tmp/foo*bar`.
