---
slug: Copying-and-Naming
---

Emacs has several commands for copying, naming, and renaming files. All of them read two file names, `old` (or `target`) and `new`, using the minibuffer, and then copy or adjust a file’s name accordingly; they do not accept wildcard file names.

In all these commands, if the argument `new` is just a directory name (see [Directory Names](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/elisp.html#Directory-Names) in the Emacs Lisp Reference Manual), the real new name is in that directory, with the same non-directory component as `old`. For example, the command `M-x rename-file RET ~/foo RET /tmp/ RET`<!-- /@w --> renames `~/foo` to `/tmp/foo`. On GNU and other POSIX-like systems, directory names end in ‘`/`’.

All these commands ask for confirmation when the new file name already exists.

`M-x copy-file` copies the contents of the file `old` to the file `new`.

`M-x copy-directory` copies directories, similar to the `cp -r` shell command. If `new` is a directory name, it creates a copy of the `old` directory and puts it in `new`. Otherwise it copies all the contents of `old` into a new directory named `new`.

`M-x rename-file` renames file `old` as `new`. If the file name `new` already exists, you must confirm with `yes` or renaming is not done; this is because renaming causes the old meaning of the name `new` to be lost. If `old` and `new` are on different file systems, the file `old` is copied and deleted.

If a file is under version control (see [Version Control](/docs/emacs/Version-Control)), you should rename it using `M-x vc-rename-file`<!-- /@w --> instead of `M-x rename-file`<!-- /@w -->. See [VC Delete/Rename](/docs/emacs/VC-Delete_002fRename).

`M-x add-name-to-file` adds an additional name to an existing file without removing the old name. The new name is created as a hard link to the existing file. The new name must belong on the same file system that the file is on. On MS-Windows, this command works only if the file resides in an NTFS file system. On MS-DOS, and some remote system types, it works by copying the file.

`M-x make-symbolic-link` creates a symbolic link named `new`, which points at `target`. The effect is that future attempts to open file `new` will refer to whatever file is named `target` at the time the opening is done, or will get an error if the name `target` is nonexistent at that time. This command does not expand the argument `target`, so that it allows you to specify a relative name as the target of the link. However, this command does expand leading ‘`~`’ in `target` so that you can easily specify home directories, and strips leading ‘`/:`’ so that you can specify relative names beginning with literal ‘`~`’ or ‘`/:`’. See [Quoted File Names](/docs/emacs/Quoted-File-Names). On MS-Windows, this command works only on MS Windows Vista and later. When `new` is remote, it works depending on the system type.
