---
slug: Recover
---

You can use the contents of an auto-save file to recover from a loss of data with the command `M-x recover-file RET file RET`. This visits `file` and then (after your confirmation) restores the contents from its auto-save file `#file#`. You can then save with `C-x C-s` to put the recovered text into `file` itself. For example, to recover file `foo.c` from its auto-save file `#foo.c#`, do:

```lisp
M-x recover-file RET foo.c RET
yes RET
C-x C-s
```

Before asking for confirmation, `M-x recover-file` displays a directory listing describing the specified file and the auto-save file, so you can compare their sizes and dates. If the auto-save file is older, `M-x recover-file` does not offer to read it.

If Emacs or the computer crashes, you can recover all the files you were editing from their auto save files with the command `M-x recover-session`. This first shows you a list of recorded interrupted sessions. Move point to the one you choose, and type `C-c C-c`.

Then `recover-session` asks about each of the files that were being edited during that session, asking whether to recover that file. If you answer `y`, it calls `recover-file`, which works in its normal fashion. It shows the dates of the original file and its auto-save file, and asks once again whether to recover that file.

When `recover-session` is done, the files you’ve chosen to recover are present in Emacs buffers. You should then save them. Only this—saving them—updates the files themselves.

Emacs records information about interrupted sessions in files named `.saves-pid-hostname~` in the directory `~/.emacs.d/auto-save-list/`. This directory is determined by the variable `auto-save-list-file-prefix`. If you set `auto-save-list-file-prefix` to `nil`, sessions are not recorded for recovery.
