---
slug: File-Aliases
---

Symbolic links and hard links both make it possible for several file names to refer to the same file. Hard links are alternate names that refer directly to the file; all the names are equally valid, and no one of them is preferred. By contrast, a symbolic link is a kind of defined alias: when `foo` is a symbolic link to `bar`, you can use either name to refer to the file, but `bar` is the real name, while `foo` is just an alias. More complex cases occur when symbolic links point to directories.

Normally, if you visit a file which Emacs is already visiting under a different name, Emacs displays a message in the echo area and uses the existing buffer visiting that file. This can happen on systems that support hard or symbolic links, or if you use a long file name on a system that truncates long file names, or on a case-insensitive file system. You can suppress the message by setting the variable `find-file-suppress-same-file-warnings` to a non-`nil` value. You can disable this feature entirely by setting the variable `find-file-existing-other-name` to `nil`: then if you visit the same file under two different names, you get a separate buffer for each file name.

If the variable `find-file-visit-truename` is non-`nil`, then the file name recorded for a buffer is the file’s *truename* (made by replacing all symbolic links with their target names), rather than the name you specify. Setting `find-file-visit-truename` also implies the effect of `find-file-existing-other-name`.

Sometimes, a directory is ordinarily accessed through a symbolic link, and you may want Emacs to preferentially show its linked name. To do this, customize `directory-abbrev-alist`. Each element in this list should have the form `(from . to)`, which means to replace `from` with `to` whenever `from` appears in a directory name. The `from` string is a regular expression (see [Regexps](Regexps)). It is matched against directory names anchored at the first character, and should start with ‘`` \` ``’ (to support directory names with embedded newlines, which would defeat ‘`^`’). The `to` string should be an ordinary absolute directory name pointing to the same directory. Do not use ‘`~`’ to stand for a home directory in the `to` string; Emacs performs these substitutions separately. Here’s an example, from a system on which `/home/fsf` is normally accessed through a symbolic link named `/fsf`:

```lisp
(("\\`/home/fsf" . "/fsf"))
```
