---
slug: Comparing-Files
---

The command `M-x diff` prompts for two file names, using the minibuffer, and displays the differences between the two files in a buffer named `*diff*`. This works by running the `diff` program, using options taken from the variable `diff-switches`. The value of `diff-switches` should be a string; the default is `"-u"` to specify a unified context diff. See [Diff](https://www.gnu.org/software/diffutils/manual/diffutils#Top) in Comparing and Merging Files, for more information about the `diff` program.

The output of the `diff` command is shown using a major mode called Diff mode. See [Diff Mode](/docs/emacs/Diff-Mode).

A (much more sophisticated) alternative is `M-x ediff` (see [Ediff](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/ediff.html#Top) in The Ediff Manual).

The command `M-x diff-backup` compares a specified file with its most recent backup. If you specify the name of a backup file, `diff-backup` compares it with the source file that it is a backup of. In all other respects, this behaves like `M-x diff`.

The command `M-x diff-buffer-with-file` compares a specified buffer with its corresponding file. This shows you what changes you would make to the file if you save the buffer.

The command `M-x diff-buffers` compares the contents of two specified buffers.

The command `M-x compare-windows` compares the text in the current window with that in the window that was the selected window before you selected the current one. (For more information about windows in Emacs, [Windows](/docs/emacs/Windows).) Comparison starts at point in each window, after pushing each initial point value on the mark ring (see [Mark Ring](/docs/emacs/Mark-Ring)) in its respective buffer. Then it moves point forward in each window, one character at a time, until it reaches characters that don’t match. Then the command exits.

If point in the two windows is followed by non-matching text when the command starts, `M-x compare-windows` tries heuristically to advance up to matching text in the two windows, and then exits. So if you use `M-x compare-windows` repeatedly, each time it either skips one matching range or finds the start of another.

With a numeric argument, `compare-windows` ignores changes in whitespace. If the variable `compare-ignore-case` is non-`nil`, the comparison ignores differences in case as well. If the variable `compare-ignore-whitespace` is non-`nil`, `compare-windows` by default ignores changes in whitespace, but a prefix argument turns that off for that single invocation of the command.

You can use `M-x smerge-mode` to turn on Smerge mode, a minor mode for editing output from the `diff3` program. This is typically the result of a failed merge from a version control system update outside VC, due to conflicting changes to a file. Smerge mode provides commands to resolve conflicts by selecting specific changes.

See [Emerge](/docs/emacs/Emerge), for the Emerge facility, which provides a powerful interface for merging files.
