---
slug: Kill-Buffer
---

If you continue an Emacs session for a while, you may accumulate a large number of buffers. You may then find it convenient to *kill* the buffers you no longer need. (Some other editors call this operation *close*, and talk about “closing the buffer" or “closing the file" visited in the buffer.) On most operating systems, killing a buffer releases the memory Emacs used for the buffer back to the operating system so that other programs can use it. Here are some commands for killing buffers:

### `C-x k buffer RET`

Kill buffer `buffer` (`kill-buffer`).

### `M-x kill-some-buffers`

Offer to kill each buffer, one by one.

### `M-x kill-matching-buffers`

Offer to kill all buffers matching a regular expression.

`C-x k` (`kill-buffer`) kills one buffer, whose name you specify in the minibuffer. The default, used if you type just `RET` in the minibuffer, is to kill the current buffer. If you kill the current buffer, another buffer becomes current: one that was current in the recent past but is not displayed in any window now. If you ask to kill a file-visiting buffer that is modified, then you must confirm with `yes` before the buffer is killed.

The command `M-x kill-some-buffers` asks about each buffer, one by one. An answer of `yes` means to kill the buffer, just like `kill-buffer`. This command ignores buffers whose names begin with a space, which are used internally by Emacs.

The command `M-x kill-matching-buffers` prompts for a regular expression and kills all buffers whose names match that expression. See [Regexps](/docs/emacs/Regexps). Like `kill-some-buffers`, it asks for confirmation before each kill. This command normally ignores buffers whose names begin with a space, which are used internally by Emacs. To kill internal buffers as well, call `kill-matching-buffers` with a prefix argument.

The Buffer Menu feature is also convenient for killing various buffers. See [Several Buffers](/docs/emacs/Several-Buffers).

If you want to do something special every time a buffer is killed, you can add hook functions to the hook `kill-buffer-hook` (see [Hooks](/docs/emacs/Hooks)).

If you run one Emacs session for a period of days, as many people do, it can fill up with buffers that you used several days ago. The command `M-x clean-buffer-list` is a convenient way to purge them; it kills all the unmodified buffers that you have not used for a long time. An ordinary buffer is killed if it has not been displayed for three days; however, you can specify certain buffers that should never be killed automatically, and others that should be killed if they have been unused for a mere hour. These defaults, and other aspects of this command’s behavior, can be controlled by customizing several options described in the doc string of `clean-buffer-list`.

You can also have this buffer purging done for you, once a day, by enabling Midnight mode. Midnight mode operates each day at midnight; at that time, it runs `clean-buffer-list`, or whichever functions you have placed in the normal hook `midnight-hook` (see [Hooks](/docs/emacs/Hooks)). To enable Midnight mode, use the Customization buffer to set the variable `midnight-mode` to `t`. See [Easy Customization](/docs/emacs/Easy-Customization).
