---
slug: Tooltips
---

*Tooltips* are small special frames that display text information at the current mouse position. They activate when there is a pause in mouse movement over some significant piece of text in a window, or the mode line, or some other part of the Emacs frame such as a tool bar button or menu item.

You can toggle the use of tooltips with the command `M-x tooltip-mode`. When Tooltip mode is disabled, the help text is displayed in the echo area instead. To control the use of tooltips at startup, customize the variable `tooltip-mode`.

The following variables provide customization options for tooltip display:

### `tooltip-delay`

This variable specifies how long Emacs should wait before displaying the first tooltip. The value is in seconds.

### `tooltip-short-delay`

This variable specifies how long Emacs should wait before displaying subsequent tooltips on different items, having already displayed the first tooltip. The value is in seconds.

### `tooltip-hide-delay`

The number of seconds since displaying a tooltip to hide it, if the mouse doesn’t move.

### `tooltip-x-offset`

### `tooltip-y-offset`

The X and Y offsets, in pixels, of the left top corner of the tooltip from the mouse pointer position. Note that these are ignored if `tooltip-frame-parameters` was customized to include, respectively, the `left` and `top` parameters. The values of the offsets should be chosen so that the tooltip doesn’t cover the mouse pointer’s hot spot, or it might interfere with clicking the mouse.

### `tooltip-frame-parameters`

The frame parameters used for displaying tooltips. See [Frame Parameters](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/elisp.html#Frame-Parameters) in The Emacs Lisp Reference Manual, and also [Tooltips](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/elisp.html#Tooltips) in The Emacs Lisp Reference Manual.

For additional customization options for displaying tooltips, use `M-x customize-group RET tooltip RET`.

If Emacs is built with GTK+ support, it displays tooltips via GTK+, using the default appearance of GTK+ tooltips. To disable this, change the variable `x-gtk-use-system-tooltips` to `nil`. If you do this, or if Emacs is built without GTK+ support, most attributes of the tooltip text are specified by the `tooltip` face, and by X resources (see [X Resources](/docs/emacs/X-Resources)).

*GUD tooltips* are special tooltips that show the values of variables when debugging a program with GUD. See [Debugger Operation](/docs/emacs/Debugger-Operation).
