---
slug: Creating-Frames
---

The prefix key `C-x 5` is analogous to `C-x 4`. Whereas each `C-x 4` command pops up a buffer in a different window in the selected frame (see [Pop Up Window](Pop-Up-Window)), the `C-x 5` commands use a different frame. If an existing visible or iconified (a.k.a. “minimized", see [Visibility of Frames](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/elisp.html#Visibility-of-Frames) in The Emacs Lisp Reference Manual) frame already displays the requested buffer, that frame is raised and deiconified (“un-minimized"); otherwise, a new frame is created on the current display terminal.

The various `C-x 5` commands differ in how they find or create the buffer to select:

### `C-x 5 2`

Create a new frame (`make-frame-command`).

### `C-x 5 b bufname RET`

Select buffer `bufname` in another frame. This runs `switch-to-buffer-other-frame`.

### `C-x 5 f filename RET`

Visit file `filename` and select its buffer in another frame. This runs `find-file-other-frame`. See [Visiting](Visiting).

### `C-x 5 d directory RET`

Select a Dired buffer for directory `directory` in another frame. This runs `dired-other-frame`. See [Dired](Dired).

### `C-x 5 m`

Start composing a mail message in another frame. This runs `compose-mail-other-frame`. It is the other-frame variant of `C-x m`. See [Sending Mail](Sending-Mail).

### `C-x 5 .`

Find the definition of an identifier in another frame. This runs `xref-find-definitions-other-frame`, the multiple-frame variant of `M-.`. See [Xref](Xref).

### `C-x 5 r filename RET`

Visit file `filename` read-only, and select its buffer in another frame. This runs `find-file-read-only-other-frame`. See [Visiting](Visiting).

You can control the appearance and behavior of the newly-created frames by specifying *frame parameters*. See [Frame Parameters](Frame-Parameters).
