---
slug: Defining-Fontsets
---

When running on X, Emacs creates a standard fontset automatically according to the value of `standard-fontset-spec`. This fontset’s name is

```lisp
-*-fixed-medium-r-normal-*-16-*-*-*-*-*-fontset-standard
```

or just ‘`fontset-standard`’ for short.

On GNUstep and macOS, the standard fontset is created using the value of `ns-standard-fontset-spec`, and on MS Windows it is created using the value of `w32-standard-fontset-spec`.

Bold, italic, and bold-italic variants of the standard fontset are created automatically. Their names have ‘`bold`’ instead of ‘`medium`’, or ‘`i`’ instead of ‘`r`’, or both.

Emacs generates a fontset automatically, based on any default ASCII font that you specify with the ‘`Font`’ resource or the ‘`-fn`’ argument, or the default font that Emacs found when it started. This is the *startup fontset* and its name is `fontset-startup`. Emacs generates this fontset by replacing the `charset_registry` field with ‘`fontset`’, and replacing the `charset_encoding` field with ‘`startup`’, then using the resulting string to specify a fontset.

For instance, if you start Emacs with a font of this form,

```lisp
emacs -fn "*courier-medium-r-normal--14-140-*-iso8859-1"
```

Emacs generates the following fontset and uses it for the initial X window frame:

```lisp
-*-courier-medium-r-normal-*-14-140-*-*-*-*-fontset-startup
```

The startup fontset will use the font that you specify, or a variant with a different registry and encoding, for all the characters that are supported by that font, and fallback on ‘`fontset-default`’ for other characters.

With the X resource ‘`Emacs.Font`’, you can specify a fontset name just like an actual font name. But be careful not to specify a fontset name in a wildcard resource like ‘`Emacs*Font`’—that wildcard specification matches various other resources, such as for menus, and menus cannot handle fontsets. See [X Resources](/docs/emacs/X-Resources).

You can specify additional fontsets using X resources named ‘`Fontset-n`’, where `n` is an integer starting from 0. The resource value should have this form:

```lisp
fontpattern, [charset:font]…
```

where `fontpattern` should have the form of a standard X font name (see the previous fontset-startup example), except for the last two fields. They should have the form ‘`fontset-alias`’.

Each fontset has two names, one long and one short. The long name is `fontpattern`. The short name is ‘`fontset-alias`’, the last 2 fields of the long name (e.g., ‘`fontset-startup`’ for the fontset automatically created at startup). You can refer to the fontset by either name.

The construct ‘`charset:font`’ specifies which font to use (in this fontset) for one particular character set. Here, `charset` is the name of a character set, and `font` is the font to use for that character set. You can use this construct any number of times in defining one fontset.

For the other character sets, Emacs chooses a font based on `fontpattern`. It replaces ‘`fontset-alias`’ with values that describe the character set. For the ASCII character font, ‘`fontset-alias`’ is replaced with ‘`ISO8859-1`’.

In addition, when several consecutive fields are wildcards, Emacs collapses them into a single wildcard. This is to prevent use of auto-scaled fonts. Fonts made by scaling larger fonts are not usable for editing, and scaling a smaller font is also not useful, because it is better to use the smaller font in its own size, which is what Emacs does.

Thus if `fontpattern` is this,

```lisp
-*-fixed-medium-r-normal-*-24-*-*-*-*-*-fontset-24
```

the font specification for ASCII characters would be this:

```lisp
-*-fixed-medium-r-normal-*-24-*-ISO8859-1
```

and the font specification for Chinese GB2312 characters would be this:

```lisp
-*-fixed-medium-r-normal-*-24-*-gb2312*-*
```

You may not have any Chinese font matching the above font specification. Most X distributions include only Chinese fonts that have ‘`song ti`’ or ‘`fangsong ti`’ in the `family` field. In such a case, ‘`Fontset-n`’ can be specified as:

```lisp
Emacs.Fontset-0: -*-fixed-medium-r-normal-*-24-*-*-*-*-*-fontset-24,\
        chinese-gb2312:-*-*-medium-r-normal-*-24-*-gb2312*-*
```

Then, the font specifications for all but Chinese GB2312 characters have ‘`fixed`’ in the `family` field, and the font specification for Chinese GB2312 characters has a wild card ‘`*`’ in the `family` field.

The function that processes the fontset resource value to create the fontset is called `create-fontset-from-fontset-spec`. You can also call this function explicitly to create a fontset.

See [Fonts](/docs/emacs/Fonts), for more information about font naming.
