---
slug: Minor-Modes
---

A minor mode is an optional editing mode that alters the behavior of Emacs in some well-defined way. Unlike major modes, any number of minor modes can be in effect at any time. Some minor modes are *buffer-local*, and can be turned on (enabled) in certain buffers and off (disabled) in others. Other minor modes are *global*: while enabled, they affect everything you do in the Emacs session, in all buffers. Most minor modes are disabled by default, but a few are enabled by default.

Most buffer-local minor modes say in the mode line when they are enabled, just after the major mode indicator. For example, ‘`Fill`’ in the mode line means that Auto Fill mode is enabled. See [Mode Line](Mode-Line).

Like major modes, each minor mode is associated with a *mode command*, whose name consists of the mode name followed by ‘`-mode`’. For instance, the mode command for Auto Fill mode is `auto-fill-mode`. But unlike a major mode command, which simply enables the mode, the mode command for a minor mode can either enable or disable it:

*   If you invoke the mode command directly with no prefix argument (either via `M-x`, or by binding it to a key and typing that key; see [Key Bindings](Key-Bindings)), that *toggles* the minor mode. The minor mode is turned on if it was off, and turned off if it was on.
*   If you invoke the mode command with a prefix argument, the minor mode is unconditionally turned off if that argument is zero or negative; otherwise, it is unconditionally turned on.
*   If the mode command is called via Lisp, the minor mode is unconditionally turned on if the argument is omitted or `nil`. This makes it easy to turn on a minor mode from a major mode’s mode hook (see [Major Modes](Major-Modes)). A non-`nil` argument is handled like an interactive prefix argument, as described above.

Most minor modes also have a *mode variable*, with the same name as the mode command. Its value is non-`nil` if the mode is enabled, and `nil` if it is disabled. In general, you should not try to enable or disable the mode by changing the value of the mode variable directly in Lisp; you should run the mode command instead. However, setting the mode variable through the Customize interface (see [Easy Customization](Easy-Customization)) will always properly enable or disable the mode, since Customize automatically runs the mode command for you.

The following is a list of some buffer-local minor modes:

*   Abbrev mode automatically expands text based on pre-defined abbreviation definitions. See [Abbrevs](Abbrevs).
*   Auto Fill mode inserts newlines as you type to prevent lines from becoming too long. See [Filling](Filling).
*   Auto Save mode saves the buffer contents periodically to reduce the amount of work you can lose in case of a crash. See [Auto Save](Auto-Save).
*   Electric Quote mode automatically converts quotation marks. For example, it requotes text typed `` `like this' `` to text `‘like this’`. You can control what kind of text it operates in, and you can disable it entirely in individual buffers. See [Quotation Marks](Quotation-Marks).
*   Enriched mode enables editing and saving of formatted text. See [Enriched Text](Enriched-Text).
*   Flyspell mode automatically highlights misspelled words. See [Spelling](Spelling).
*   Font-Lock mode automatically highlights certain textual units found in programs. It is enabled globally by default, but you can disable it in individual buffers. See [Faces](Faces).
*   Display Line Numbers mode is a convenience wrapper around `display-line-numbers`, setting it using the value of `display-line-numbers-type`. See [Display Custom](Display-Custom).
*   Outline minor mode provides similar facilities to the major mode called Outline mode. See [Outline Mode](Outline-Mode).
*   Overwrite mode causes ordinary printing characters to replace existing text instead of shoving it to the right. For example, if point is in front of the ‘`B`’ in ‘`FOOBAR`’, then in Overwrite mode typing a `G` changes it to ‘`FOOGAR`’, instead of producing ‘`FOOGBAR`’ as usual. In Overwrite mode, the command `C-q` inserts the next character whatever it may be, even if it is a digit—this gives you a way to insert a character instead of replacing an existing character. The mode command, `overwrite-mode`, is bound to the `Insert` key.
*   Binary Overwrite mode is a variant of Overwrite mode for editing binary files; it treats newlines and tabs like other characters, so that they overwrite other characters and can be overwritten by them. In Binary Overwrite mode, digits after `C-q` specify an octal character code, as usual.
*   Visual Line mode performs word wrapping, causing long lines to be wrapped at word boundaries. See [Visual Line Mode](Visual-Line-Mode).

And here are some useful global minor modes:

*   Column Number mode enables display of the current column number in the mode line. See [Mode Line](Mode-Line).
*   Delete Selection mode causes text insertion to first delete the text in the region, if the region is active. See [Using Region](Using-Region).
*   Icomplete mode displays an indication of available completions when you are in the minibuffer and completion is active. See [Icomplete](Icomplete).
*   Line Number mode enables display of the current line number in the mode line. It is enabled by default. See [Mode Line](Mode-Line).
*   Menu Bar mode gives each frame a menu bar. It is enabled by default. See [Menu Bars](Menu-Bars).
*   Scroll Bar mode gives each window a scroll bar. It is enabled by default, but the scroll bar is only displayed on graphical terminals. See [Scroll Bars](Scroll-Bars).
*   Tool Bar mode gives each frame a tool bar. It is enabled by default, but the tool bar is only displayed on graphical terminals. See [Tool Bars](Tool-Bars).
*   Tab Bar mode gives each frame a tab bar. See [Tab Bars](Tab-Bars).
*   Tab Line mode gives each window a tab line. See [Tab Line](Tab-Line).
*   Transient Mark mode highlights the region, and makes many Emacs commands operate on the region when the mark is active. It is enabled by default. See [Mark](Mark).
