---
slug: HTML-Mode
---

The major modes for SGML and HTML provide indentation support and commands for operating on tags.

HTML consists of two modes—one, a basic mode called `html-mode` is a slightly customized variant of SGML mode. The other, which is used by default for HTML files, is called `mhtml-mode`, and attempts to properly handle Javascript enclosed in a `<script>` element and CSS embedded in a `<style>` element.

### `C-c C-n`

Interactively specify a special character and insert the SGML ‘`&`’-command for that character (`sgml-name-char`).

### `C-c C-t`

Interactively specify a tag and its attributes (`sgml-tag`). This command asks you for a tag name and for the attribute values, then inserts both the opening tag and the closing tag, leaving point between them.

With a prefix argument `n`, the command puts the tag around the `n` words already present in the buffer after point. Whenever a region is active, it puts the tag around the region (when Transient Mark mode is off, it does this when a numeric argument of -1 is supplied.)

### `C-c C-a`

Interactively insert attribute values for the current tag (`sgml-attributes`).

### `C-c C-f`

Skip across a balanced tag group (which extends from an opening tag through its corresponding closing tag) (`sgml-skip-tag-forward`). A numeric argument acts as a repeat count.

### `C-c C-b`

Skip backward across a balanced tag group (which extends from an opening tag through its corresponding closing tag) (`sgml-skip-tag-backward`). A numeric argument acts as a repeat count.

### `C-c C-d`

Delete the tag at or after point, and delete the matching tag too (`sgml-delete-tag`). If the tag at or after point is an opening tag, delete the closing tag too; if it is a closing tag, delete the opening tag too.

### `C-c ? tag RET`

Display a description of the meaning of tag `tag` (`sgml-tag-help`). If the argument `tag` is empty, describe the tag at point.

### `C-c /`

Insert a close tag for the innermost unterminated tag (`sgml-close-tag`). If called within a tag or a comment, close it instead of inserting a close tag.

### `C-c 8`

Toggle a minor mode in which Latin-1 characters insert the corresponding SGML commands that stand for them, instead of the characters themselves (`sgml-name-8bit-mode`).

### `C-c C-v`

Run a shell command (which you must specify) to validate the current buffer as SGML (`sgml-validate`). (In HTML mode this key sequence runs a different command.)

### `C-c TAB`

Toggle the visibility of existing tags in the buffer. This can be used as a cheap preview (`sgml-tags-invisible`).

The major mode for editing XML documents is called nXML mode. This is a powerful major mode that can recognize many existing XML schemas and use them to provide completion of XML elements via `M-TAB`, as well as on-the-fly XML validation with error highlighting. To enable nXML mode in an existing buffer, type `M-x nxml-mode`, or, equivalently, `M-x xml-mode`. Emacs uses nXML mode for files which have the extension `.xml`. For XHTML files, which have the extension `.xhtml`, Emacs uses HTML mode by default; you can make it use nXML mode by customizing the variable `auto-mode-alist` (see [Choosing Modes](Choosing-Modes)). nXML mode is described in an Info manual, which is distributed with Emacs.

You may choose to use the less powerful SGML mode for editing XML, since XML is a strict subset of SGML. To enable SGML mode in an existing buffer, type `M-x sgml-mode`. On enabling SGML mode, Emacs examines the buffer to determine whether it is XML; if so, it sets the variable `sgml-xml-mode` to a non-`nil` value. This causes SGML mode’s tag insertion commands, described above, to always insert explicit closing tags as well.
