---
slug: Auto-Fill
---

*Auto Fill* mode is a buffer-local minor mode (see [Minor Modes](/docs/emacs/Minor-Modes)) in which lines are broken automatically at spaces when the line becomes too wide.

### `M-x auto-fill-mode`

Enable or disable Auto Fill mode.

### `SPC`

### `RET`

In Auto Fill mode, break lines when appropriate.

The mode command `M-x auto-fill-mode` toggles Auto Fill mode in the current buffer. Like any other minor mode, with a positive numeric argument, it enables Auto Fill mode, and with a negative argument it disables it. To enable Auto Fill mode automatically in certain major modes, add `auto-fill-mode` to the mode hooks (see [Major Modes](/docs/emacs/Major-Modes)). When Auto Fill mode is enabled, the mode indicator ‘`Fill`’ appears in the mode line (see [Mode Line](/docs/emacs/Mode-Line)).

Auto Fill mode breaks lines automatically at spaces whenever they get longer than the desired width. This line breaking occurs only when you type `SPC` or `RET`. If you wish to insert a space or newline without permitting line-breaking, type `C-q SPC` or `C-q C-j` respectively. Also, `C-o` inserts a newline without line breaking.

When Auto Fill mode breaks a line, it tries to obey the *adaptive fill prefix*: if a fill prefix can be deduced from the first and/or second line of the current paragraph, it is inserted into the new line (see [Adaptive Fill](/docs/emacs/Adaptive-Fill)). Otherwise the new line is indented, as though you had typed `TAB` on it (see [Indentation](/docs/emacs/Indentation)). In a programming language mode, if a line is broken in the middle of a comment, the comment is split by inserting new comment delimiters as appropriate.

Auto Fill mode does not refill entire paragraphs; it breaks lines but does not merge lines. Therefore, editing in the middle of a paragraph can result in a paragraph that is not correctly filled. To fill it, call the explicit fill commands (see [Fill Commands](/docs/emacs/Fill-Commands)).
