---
slug: Outline-Mode
---

Outline mode is a major mode derived from Text mode, which is specialized for editing outlines. It provides commands to navigate between entries in the outline structure, and commands to make parts of a buffer temporarily invisible, so that the outline structure may be more easily viewed. Type `M-x outline-mode` to switch to Outline mode. Entering Outline mode runs the hook `text-mode-hook` followed by the hook `outline-mode-hook` (see [Hooks](/docs/emacs/Hooks)).

When you use an Outline mode command to make a line invisible (see [Outline Visibility](/docs/emacs/Outline-Visibility)), the line disappears from the screen. An ellipsis (three periods in a row) is displayed at the end of the previous visible line, to indicate the hidden text. Multiple consecutive invisible lines produce just one ellipsis.

Editing commands that operate on lines, such as `C-n` and `C-p`, treat the text of the invisible line as part of the previous visible line. Killing the ellipsis at the end of a visible line really kills all the following invisible text associated with the ellipsis.

Outline minor mode is a buffer-local minor mode which provides the same commands as the major mode, Outline mode, but can be used in conjunction with other major modes. You can type `M-x outline-minor-mode` to toggle Outline minor mode in the current buffer, or use a file-local variable setting to enable it in a specific file (see [File Variables](/docs/emacs/File-Variables)).

The major mode, Outline mode, provides special key bindings on the `C-c` prefix. Outline minor mode provides similar bindings with `C-c @` as the prefix; this is to reduce the conflicts with the major mode’s special commands. (The variable `outline-minor-mode-prefix` controls the prefix used.)

|                                                        |    |                                               |
| :----------------------------------------------------- | -- | :-------------------------------------------- |
| • [Outline Format](/docs/emacs/Outline-Format)         |    | What the text of an outline looks like.       |
| • [Outline Motion](/docs/emacs/Outline-Motion)         |    | Special commands for moving through outlines. |
| • [Outline Visibility](/docs/emacs/Outline-Visibility) |    | Commands to control what is visible.          |
| • [Outline Views](/docs/emacs/Outline-Views)           |    | Outlines and multiple views.                  |
| • [Foldout](/docs/emacs/Foldout)                       |    | Folding means zooming in on outlines.         |
