---
slug: Motion-in-C
---

This section describes commands for moving point, in C mode and related modes.

### `C-M-a`

### `C-M-e`

Move point to the beginning or end of the current function or top-level definition. In languages with enclosing scopes (such as C++’s classes) the *current function* is the immediate one, possibly inside a scope. Otherwise it is the one defined by the least enclosing braces. (By contrast, `beginning-of-defun` and `end-of-defun` search for braces in column zero.) See [Moving by Defuns](/docs/emacs/Moving-by-Defuns).

### `C-c C-u`

Move point back to the containing preprocessor conditional, leaving the mark behind. A prefix argument acts as a repeat count. With a negative argument, move point forward to the end of the containing preprocessor conditional.

‘`#elif`’ is equivalent to ‘`#else`’ followed by ‘`#if`’, so the function will stop at a ‘`#elif`’ when going backward, but not when going forward.

### `C-c C-p`

Move point back over a preprocessor conditional, leaving the mark behind. A prefix argument acts as a repeat count. With a negative argument, move forward.

### `C-c C-n`

Move point forward across a preprocessor conditional, leaving the mark behind. A prefix argument acts as a repeat count. With a negative argument, move backward.

### `M-a`

Move point to the beginning of the innermost C statement (`c-beginning-of-statement`). If point is already at the beginning of a statement, move to the beginning of the preceding statement. With prefix argument `n`, move back `n` - 1 statements.

In comments or in strings which span more than one line, this command moves by sentences instead of statements.

### `M-e`

Move point to the end of the innermost C statement or sentence; like `M-a` except that it moves in the other direction (`c-end-of-statement`).
