---
slug: Imenu
---

The Imenu facility offers a way to find the major definitions in a file by name. It is also useful in text formatter major modes, where it treats each chapter, section, etc., as a definition. (See [Xref](/docs/emacs/Xref), for a more powerful feature that handles multiple files together.)

If you type `M-x imenu`, it reads the name of a definition using the minibuffer, then moves point to that definition. You can use completion to specify the name; the command always displays the whole list of valid names.

Alternatively, you can bind the command `imenu` to a mouse click. Then it displays mouse menus for you to select a definition name. You can also add the buffer’s index to the menu bar by calling `imenu-add-menubar-index`. If you want to have this menu bar item available for all buffers in a certain major mode, you can do this by adding `imenu-add-menubar-index` to its mode hook. But if you have done that, you will have to wait a little while each time you visit a file in that mode, while Emacs finds all the definitions in that buffer.

When you change the contents of a buffer, if you add or delete definitions, you can update the buffer’s index based on the new contents by invoking the ‘`*Rescan*`’ item in the menu. Rescanning happens automatically if you set `imenu-auto-rescan` to a non-`nil` value. There is no need to rescan because of small changes in the text.

`imenu-auto-rescan` will be disabled in buffers that are larger than `imenu-auto-rescan-maxout` in bytes.

You can customize the way the menus are sorted by setting the variable `imenu-sort-function`. By default, names are ordered as they occur in the buffer; if you want alphabetic sorting, use the symbol `imenu--sort-by-name` as the value. You can also define your own comparison function by writing Lisp code.

Imenu provides the information to guide Which Function mode (see [Which Function](/docs/emacs/Which-Function)). The Speedbar can also use it (see [Speedbar](/docs/emacs/Speedbar)).
