---
slug: Grep-Searching
---

Just as you can run a compiler from Emacs and then visit the lines with compilation errors, you can also run `grep` and then visit the lines on which matches were found. This works by treating the matches reported by `grep` as if they were errors. The output buffer uses Grep mode, which is a variant of Compilation mode (see [Compilation Mode](/docs/emacs/Compilation-Mode)).

### `M-x grep`

### `M-x lgrep`

Run `grep` asynchronously under Emacs, listing matching lines in the buffer named `*grep*`.

### `M-x grep-find`

### `M-x find-grep`

### `M-x rgrep`

Run `grep` via `find`, and collect output in the `*grep*` buffer.

### `M-x zrgrep`

Run `zgrep` and collect output in the `*grep*` buffer.

### `M-x kill-grep`

Kill the running `grep` subprocess.

To run `grep`, type `M-x grep`, then enter a command line that specifies how to run `grep`. Use the same arguments you would give `grep` when running it normally: a `grep`-style regexp (usually in single-quotes to quote the shell’s special characters) followed by file names, which may use wildcards. If you specify a prefix argument for `M-x grep`, it finds the identifier (see [Xref](/docs/emacs/Xref)) in the buffer around point, and puts that into the default `grep` command.

Your command need not simply run `grep`; you can use any shell command that produces output in the same format. For instance, you can chain `grep` commands, like this:

```lisp
grep -nH -e foo *.el | grep bar | grep toto
```

The output from `grep` goes in the `*grep*` buffer. You can find the corresponding lines in the original files using `M-g M-n`<!-- /@w -->, `RET`, and so forth, just like compilation errors. See [Compilation Mode](/docs/emacs/Compilation-Mode), for detailed description of commands and key bindings available in the `*grep*` buffer.

Some grep programs accept a ‘`--color`’ option to output special markers around matches for the purpose of highlighting. You can make use of this feature by setting `grep-highlight-matches` to `t`. When displaying a match in the source buffer, the exact match will be highlighted, instead of the entire source line.

As with compilation commands (see [Compilation](/docs/emacs/Compilation)), while the grep command runs, the mode line shows the running number of matches found and highlighted so far.

The `grep` commands will offer to save buffers before running. This is controlled by the `grep-save-buffers` variable. The possible values are either `nil` (don’t save), `ask` (ask before saving), or a function which will be used as a predicate (and is called with the file name as the parameter and should return non-`nil` if the buffer is to be saved). Any other non-`nil` value means that all buffers should be saved without asking. The default is `ask`.

The command `M-x grep-find` (also available as `M-x find-grep`) is similar to `M-x grep`, but it supplies a different initial default for the command—one that runs both `find` and `grep`, so as to search every file in a directory tree. See also the `find-grep-dired` command, in [Dired and Find](/docs/emacs/Dired-and-Find).

The commands `M-x lgrep` (local grep) and `M-x rgrep` (recursive grep) are more user-friendly versions of `grep` and `grep-find`, which prompt separately for the regular expression to match, the files to search, and the base directory for the search. Case sensitivity of the search is controlled by the current value of `case-fold-search`. The command `M-x zrgrep` is similar to `M-x rgrep`, but it calls `zgrep` instead of `grep` to search the contents of gzipped files.

These commands build the shell commands based on the variables `grep-template` (for `lgrep`) and `grep-find-template` (for `rgrep`). The files to search can use aliases defined in the variable `grep-files-aliases`.

Directories listed in the variable `grep-find-ignored-directories` are automatically skipped by `M-x rgrep`. The default value includes the data directories used by various version control systems.

By default, the shell commands constructed for `lgrep`, `rgrep`, and `zgrep` are abbreviated for display by concealing the part that contains a long list of files and directories to ignore. You can reveal the concealed part by clicking on the button with ellipsis, which represents them. You can also interactively toggle viewing the concealed part by typing `M-x grep-find-toggle-abbreviation`. To disable this abbreviation of the shell commands, customize the option `grep-find-abbreviate` to a `nil` value.
