---
slug: GUD-Customization
---

On startup, GUD runs one of the following hooks: `gdb-mode-hook`, if you are using GDB; `dbx-mode-hook`, if you are using DBX; `sdb-mode-hook`, if you are using SDB; `xdb-mode-hook`, if you are using XDB; `guiler-mode-hook` for Guile REPL debugging; `perldb-mode-hook`, for Perl debugging mode; `pdb-mode-hook`, for PDB; `jdb-mode-hook`, for JDB. See [Hooks](/docs/emacs/Hooks).

The `gud-def` Lisp macro (see [Defining Macros](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/elisp.html#Defining-Macros) in the Emacs Lisp Reference Manual) provides a convenient way to define an Emacs command that sends a particular command string to the debugger, and set up a key binding for in the GUD interaction buffer:

```lisp
(gud-def function cmdstring binding docstring)
```

This defines a command named `function` which sends `cmdstring` to the debugger process, and gives it the documentation string `docstring`. You can then use the command `function` in any buffer. If `binding` is non-`nil`, `gud-def` also binds the command to `C-c binding` in the GUD buffer’s mode and to `C-x C-a binding` generally.

The command string `cmdstring` may contain certain ‘`%`’-sequences that stand for data to be filled in at the time `function` is called:

### ‘`%f`’

The name of the current source file. If the current buffer is the GUD buffer, then the current source file is the file that the program stopped in.

### ‘`%l`’

The number of the current source line. If the current buffer is the GUD buffer, then the current source line is the line that the program stopped in.

### ‘`%e`’

In transient-mark-mode the text in the region, if it is active. Otherwise the text of the C lvalue or function-call expression at or adjacent to point.

### ‘`%a`’

The text of the hexadecimal address at or adjacent to point.

### ‘`%p`’

The numeric argument of the called function, as a decimal number. If the command is used without a numeric argument, ‘`%p`’ stands for the empty string.

If you don’t use ‘`%p`’ in the command string, the command you define ignores any numeric argument.

### ‘`%d`’

The name of the directory of the current source file.

### ‘`%c`’

Fully qualified class name derived from the expression surrounding point (jdb only).
