---
slug: Registering
---

### `C-x v i`

Register the visited file for version control.

The command `C-x v i` (`vc-register`) *registers* each file in the current VC fileset, placing it under version control. This is essentially equivalent to the action of `C-x v v` on an unregistered VC fileset (see [Basic VC Editing](/docs/emacs/Basic-VC-Editing)), except that if the VC fileset is already registered, `C-x v i` signals an error whereas `C-x v v` performs some other action.

To register a file, Emacs must choose a version control system. For a multi-file VC fileset, the VC Directory buffer specifies the system to use (see [VC Directory Mode](/docs/emacs/VC-Directory-Mode)). For a single-file VC fileset, if the file’s directory already contains files registered in a version control system, or if the directory is part of a directory tree controlled by a version control system, Emacs chooses that system. In the event that more than one version control system is applicable, Emacs uses the one that appears first in the variable `vc-handled-backends` (see [Customizing VC](/docs/emacs/Customizing-VC)). If Emacs cannot find a version control system to register the file under, it prompts for a repository type, creates a new repository, and registers the file into that repository.

On most version control systems, registering a file with `C-x v i` or `C-x v v` adds it to the working tree but not to the repository. Such files are labeled as ‘`added`’ in the VC Directory buffer, and show a revision ID of ‘`@@`’ in the mode line. To make the registration take effect in the repository, you must perform a commit (see [Basic VC Editing](/docs/emacs/Basic-VC-Editing)). Note that a single commit can include both file additions and edits to existing files.

On a locking-based version control system (see [VCS Merging](/docs/emacs/VCS-Merging)), registering a file leaves it unlocked and read-only. Type `C-x v v` to start editing it.
