---
slug: Customizing-VC
---

The variable `vc-handled-backends` determines which version control systems VC should handle. The default value is `(RCS CVS SVN SCCS SRC Bzr Git Hg Mtn)`, so it contains all the version systems that are currently supported. If you want VC to ignore one or more of these systems, exclude its name from the list. To disable VC entirely, set this variable to `nil`.

The order of systems in the list is significant: when you visit a file registered in more than one system, VC uses the system that comes first in `vc-handled-backends` by default. The order is also significant when you register a file for the first time (see [Registering](/docs/emacs/Registering)).

|                                                        |    |                                           |
| :----------------------------------------------------- | -- | :---------------------------------------- |
| • [General VC Options](/docs/emacs/General-VC-Options) |    | Options that apply to multiple back ends. |
| • [RCS and SCCS](/docs/emacs/RCS-and-SCCS)             |    | Options for RCS and SCCS.                 |
| • [CVS Options](/docs/emacs/CVS-Options)               |    | Options for CVS.                          |
## 28.1.13.1 General Options

Emacs normally does not save backup files for source files that are maintained with version control. If you want to make backup files even for files that use version control, set the variable `vc-make-backup-files` to a non-`nil` value.

Editing a version-controlled file through a symbolic link may cause unexpected results, if you are unaware that the underlying file is version-controlled. The variable `vc-follow-symlinks` controls what Emacs does if you try to visit a symbolic link pointing to a version-controlled file. If the value is `ask` (the default), Emacs asks for confirmation. If it is `nil`, Emacs just displays a warning message. If it is `t`, Emacs automatically follows the link and visits the real file instead.

If `vc-suppress-confirm` is non-`nil`, then `C-x v v` and `C-x v i` can save the current buffer without asking, and `C-x v u` also operates without asking for confirmation.

VC mode does much of its work by running the shell commands for the appropriate version control system. If `vc-command-messages` is non-`nil`, VC displays messages to indicate which shell commands it runs, and additional messages when the commands finish.
## 28.1.13.2 Options for RCS and SCCS

By default, RCS uses locking to coordinate the activities of several users, but there is a mode called *non-strict locking* in which you can check-in changes without locking the file first. Use ‘`rcs -U`’ to switch to non-strict locking for a particular file, see the `rcs` manual page for details.

When deducing the version control state of an RCS file, VC first looks for an RCS version header string in the file (see [Version Headers](/docs/emacs/Version-Headers)). If there is no header string, VC normally looks at the file permissions of the work file; this is fast. But there might be situations when the file permissions cannot be trusted. In this case the master file has to be consulted, which is rather expensive. Also the master file can only tell you *if* there’s any lock on the file, but not whether your work file really contains that locked version.

You can tell VC not to use version headers to determine the file status by setting `vc-consult-headers` to `nil`. VC then always uses the file permissions (if it is supposed to trust them), or else checks the master file.

VC determines the version control state of files under SCCS much as with RCS. It does not consider SCCS version headers, though. Thus, the variable `vc-consult-headers` does not affect SCCS use.
## 28.1.13.3 Options specific for CVS

You can specify additional command line options to pass to all CVS operations in the variable `vc-cvs-global-switches`. These switches are inserted immediately after the `cvs` command, before the name of the operation to invoke.

When using a CVS repository on a remote machine, VC can try keeping network interactions to a minimum. This is controlled by the variable `vc-cvs-stay-local`. If `vc-cvs-stay-local` is `only-file` (the default), VC determines the version control status of each file using only the entry in the local CVS subdirectory and the information returned by previous CVS commands. As a consequence, if you have modified a file and somebody else has checked in other changes, you will not be notified of the conflict until you try to commit.

If you change `vc-cvs-stay-local` to `nil`, VC queries the remote repository *before* it decides what to do in `vc-next-action` (`C-x v v`), just as it does for local repositories.

You can also set `vc-cvs-stay-local` to a regular expression that is matched against the repository host name; VC then stays local only for repositories from hosts that match the pattern.

When using a remote repository, Emacs normally makes *automatic version backups* of the original versions of each edited file. These local backups are made whenever you save the first changes to a file, and they are removed after you commit your changes to the repository. (Note that these are not the same as ordinary Emacs backup files; see [Backup](/docs/emacs/Backup).) Commands like `C-x v =` and `C-x v u` make use of automatic version backups, if possible, to avoid having to access the network.

Setting `vc-cvs-stay-local` to `nil` disables the making of automatic version backups.

Automatic version backups have names of the form `file.~version.~`<!-- /@w -->. This is similar to the name that `C-x v ~` saves old versions to (see [Old Revisions](/docs/emacs/Old-Revisions)), except for the additional dot (‘`.`’) after the version. The relevant VC commands can use both kinds of version backups. The main difference is that the manual version backups made by `C-x v ~` are not deleted automatically when you commit.

CVS does not use locking by default, but there are ways to enable locking-like behavior using its `CVSREAD` or *watch* feature; see the CVS documentation for details. If that case, you can use `C-x v v` in Emacs to toggle locking, as you would for a locking-based version control system (see [VC With A Locking VCS](/docs/emacs/VC-With-A-Locking-VCS)).
