---
slug: Projects
---

A *project* is a collection of files used for producing one or more programs. Files that belong to a project are typically stored in a hierarchy of directories; the top-level directory of the hierarchy is known as the *project root*.

Whether a given directory is a root of some project is determined by the project-specific infrastructure, known as *project back-end*. Emacs currently supports two such back-ends: VC (see [Version Control](/docs/emacs/Version-Control)), whereby a VCS repository is considered a project; and EDE (see [EDE](/docs/emacs/EDE)). This is expected to be extended in the future to support additional types of projects.

Which files do or don’t belong to a project is also determined by the project back-end. For example, the VC back-end doesn’t consider “ignored" files (see [VC Ignore](/docs/emacs/VC-Ignore)) to be part of the project.

Emacs provides commands for handling project files conveniently. This section describes these commands.

All of the commands described here share the notion of the *current project*. The current project is determined by the `default-directory` (see [File Names](/docs/emacs/File-Names)) of the buffer that is the current buffer when the command is invoked. If that directory doesn’t seem to belong to a recognizable project, these commands prompt you for the project directory.

The command `project-find-file` is a convenient way of visiting files (see [Visiting](/docs/emacs/Visiting)) that belong to the current project. Unlike `C-x C-f`, this command doesn’t require to type the full file name of the file to visit, you can type only the file’s base name (i.e., omit the leading directories). In addition, the completion candidates considered by the command include only the files belonging to the current project, and nothing else. If there’s a file name at point, this command offers that file as the default to visit.

The command `project-find-regexp` is similar to `rgrep` (see [Grep Searching](/docs/emacs/Grep-Searching)), but it searches only the files that belong to the current project. The command prompts for the regular expression to search, and pops up an Xref mode buffer with the search results, where you can select a match using the Xref mode commands (see [Xref Commands](/docs/emacs/Xref-Commands)). When invoked with a prefix argument, this command additionally prompts for the base directory from which to start the search; this allows, for example, to limit the search only to project files under a certain subdirectory of the project root.

`M-x project-search` is an interactive variant of `project-find-regexp`. It prompts for a regular expression to search in the current project’s files, but instead of finding all the matches and displaying them, it stops when it finds a match and visits the matched file at the locus of the match, allowing you to edit the matched file. To find the rest of the matches, type `M-x fileloop-continue RET`<!-- /@w -->.

`M-x project-query-replace-regexp` is similar to `project-search`, but it prompts you for whether to replace each match it finds, like `query-replace` does (see [Query Replace](/docs/emacs/Query-Replace)), and continues to the next match after you respond. If your response causes Emacs to exit the query-replace loop, you can later continue with `M-x fileloop-continue RET`<!-- /@w -->.
