---
slug: Select-Tags-Table
---

Emacs has at any time at most one *selected* tags table. All the commands for working with tags tables use the selected one. To select a tags table, type `M-x visit-tags-table`, which reads the tags table file name as an argument, with `TAGS` defaulting to the first directory that contains a file named `TAGS` encountered when recursively searching upward from the default directory.

Emacs does not actually read in the tags table contents until you try to use them; all `visit-tags-table` does is store the file name in the variable `tags-file-name`, and not much more. The variable’s initial value is `nil`; that value tells all the commands for working with tags tables that they must ask for a tags table file name to use.

Using `visit-tags-table` when a tags table is already loaded gives you a choice: you can add the new tags table to the current list of tags tables, or start a new list. The tags commands use all the tags tables in the current list. If you start a new list, the new tags table is used *instead* of others. If you add the new table to the current list, it is used *as well as* the others.

You can specify a precise list of tags tables by setting the variable `tags-table-list` to a list of strings, like this:

```lisp
(setq tags-table-list
      '("~/.emacs.d" "/usr/local/lib/emacs/src"))
```

This tells the tags commands to look at the `TAGS` files in your `~/.emacs.d` directory and in the `/usr/local/lib/emacs/src` directory. The order depends on which file you are in and which tags table mentions that file.

Do not set both `tags-file-name` and `tags-table-list`.
