---
slug: Merge-Commands
---

Here are the Merge commands for Fast mode; in Edit mode, precede them with `C-c C-c`:

### `p`

Select the previous difference.

### `n`

Select the next difference.

### `a`

Choose the A version of this difference.

### `b`

Choose the B version of this difference.

### `C-u n j`

Select difference number `n`.

### `.`

Select the difference containing point.

### `q`

Quit—finish the merge.

### `C-]`

Abort—exit merging and do not save the output.

### `f`

Go into Fast mode. (In Edit mode, this is actually `C-c C-c f`.)

### `e`

Go into Edit mode.

### `l`

Recenter (like `C-l`) all three windows. With an argument, reestablish the default three-window display.

### `-`

Specify part of a prefix numeric argument.

### `digit`

Also specify part of a prefix numeric argument.

### `d a`

Choose the A version as the default from here down in the merge buffer.

### `d b`

Choose the B version as the default from here down in the merge buffer.

### `c a`

Copy the A version of this difference into the kill ring.

### `c b`

Copy the B version of this difference into the kill ring.

### `i a`

Insert the A version of this difference at point.

### `i b`

Insert the B version of this difference at point.

### `m`

Put point and mark around the difference.

### `^`

Scroll all three windows down (like `M-v`).

### `v`

Scroll all three windows up (like `C-v`).

### `<`

Scroll all three windows left (like `C-x <`).

### `>`

Scroll all three windows right (like `C-x >`).

### `|`

Reset horizontal scroll on all three windows.

### `x 1`

Shrink the merge window to one line. (Use `C-u l` to restore it to full size.)

### `x c`

Combine the two versions of this difference (see [Combining in Emerge](/docs/emacs/Combining-in-Emerge)).

### `x f`

Show the names of the files/buffers Emerge is operating on, in a Help window. (Use `C-u l` to restore windows.)

### `x j`

Join this difference with the following one. (`C-u x j` joins this difference with the previous one.)

### `x s`

Split this difference into two differences. Before you use this command, position point in each of the three buffers at the place where you want to split the difference.

### `x t`

Trim identical lines off the top and bottom of the difference. Such lines occur when the A and B versions are identical but differ from the ancestor version.
