---
slug: Dired-Enter
---

To invoke Dired, type `C-x d` (`dired`). This reads a directory’s name using the minibuffer, and opens a *Dired buffer* listing the files in that directory. You can also supply a wildcard file name pattern as the minibuffer argument, in which case the Dired buffer lists all files matching that pattern. A wildcard may appear in the directory part as well. For instance,

```lisp
C-x d  ~/foo/*.el  RET
C-x d  ~/foo/*/*.el  RET
```

The former lists all the files with extension ‘`.el`’ in directory ‘`foo`’. The latter lists the files with extension ‘`.el`’ in all the subdirectories of ‘`foo`’.

The usual history and completion commands can be used in the minibuffer; in particular, `M-n` puts the name of the visited file (if any) in the minibuffer (see [Minibuffer History](/docs/emacs/Minibuffer-History)).

You can also invoke Dired by giving `C-x C-f` (`find-file`) a directory’s name.

The variable `dired-listing-switches` specifies the options to give to `ls` for listing the directory; this string *must* contain ‘`-l`’. If you use a prefix argument with the `dired` command, you can specify the `ls` switches with the minibuffer before you enter the directory specification. No matter how they are specified, the `ls` switches can include short options (that is, single characters) requiring no arguments, and long options (starting with ‘`--`’) whose arguments are specified with ‘`=`’.

If your `ls` program supports the ‘`--dired`’ option, Dired automatically passes it that option; this causes `ls` to emit special escape sequences for certain unusual file names, without which Dired will not be able to parse those names. The first time you run Dired in an Emacs session, it checks whether `ls` supports the ‘`--dired`’ option by calling it once with that option. If the exit code is 0, Dired will subsequently use the ‘`--dired`’ option; otherwise it will not. You can inhibit this check by customizing the variable `dired-use-ls-dired`. The value `unspecified` (the default) means to perform the check; any other non-`nil` value means to use the ‘`--dired`’ option; and `nil` means not to use the ‘`--dired`’ option.

On MS-Windows and MS-DOS systems, and also on some remote systems, Emacs emulates `ls`. See [ls in Lisp](/docs/emacs/ls-in-Lisp), for options and peculiarities of this emulation.

To display the Dired buffer in another window, use `C-x 4 d` (`dired-other-window`). `C-x 5 d` (`dired-other-frame`) displays the Dired buffer in a separate frame.

Typing `q` (`quit-window`) buries the Dired buffer, and deletes its window if the window was created just for that buffer.
