---
slug: Dired-and-Find
---

You can select a set of files for display in a Dired buffer more flexibly by using the `find` utility to choose the files.

To search for files with names matching a wildcard pattern use `M-x find-name-dired`. It reads arguments `directory` and `pattern`, and chooses all the files in `directory` or its subdirectories whose individual names match `pattern`.

The files thus chosen are displayed in a Dired buffer, in which the ordinary Dired commands are available.

If you want to test the contents of files, rather than their names, use `M-x find-grep-dired`. This command reads two minibuffer arguments, `directory` and `regexp`; it chooses all the files in `directory` or its subdirectories that contain a match for `regexp`. It works by running the programs `find` and `grep`. See also `M-x grep-find`, in [Grep Searching](/docs/emacs/Grep-Searching). Remember to write the regular expression for `grep`, not for Emacs. (An alternative method of showing files whose contents match a given regexp is the `% g regexp` command, see [Marks vs Flags](/docs/emacs/Marks-vs-Flags).)

The most general command in this series is `M-x find-dired`, which lets you specify any condition that `find` can test. It takes two minibuffer arguments, `directory` and `find-args`; it runs `find` in `directory`, passing `find-args` to tell `find` what condition to test. To use this command, you need to know how to use `find`.

The format of listing produced by these commands is controlled by the variable `find-ls-option`. This is a pair of options; the first specifying how to call `find` to produce the file listing, and the second telling Dired to parse the output.

The command `M-x locate` provides a similar interface to the `locate` program. `M-x locate-with-filter` is similar, but keeps only files whose names match a given regular expression.

These buffers don’t work entirely like ordinary Dired buffers: file operations work, but do not always automatically update the buffer. Reverting the buffer with `g` deletes all inserted subdirectories, and erases all flags and marks.
