---
slug: Wdired
---

Wdired is a special mode that allows you to perform file operations by editing the Dired buffer directly (the “W" in “Wdired" stands for “writable"). To enter Wdired mode, type `C-x C-q` (`dired-toggle-read-only`) while in a Dired buffer. Alternatively, use the ‘`Immediate / Edit File Names`’ menu item.

While in Wdired mode, you can rename files by editing the file names displayed in the Dired buffer. All the ordinary Emacs editing commands, including rectangle operations and `query-replace`, are available for this. Once you are done editing, type `C-c C-c` (`wdired-finish-edit`). This applies your changes and switches back to ordinary Dired mode.

Apart from simply renaming files, you can move a file to another directory by typing in the new file name (either absolute or relative). To mark a file for deletion, delete the entire file name. To change the target of a symbolic link, edit the link target name which appears next to the link name.

If you edit the file names to create a new subdirectory, Wdired will automatically create these new directories. To inhibit this behavior, set `wdired-create-parent-directories` to `nil`.

The rest of the text in the buffer, such as the file sizes and modification dates, is marked read-only, so you can’t edit it. However, if you set `wdired-allow-to-change-permissions` to `t`, you can edit the file permissions. For example, you can change ‘`-rw-r--r--`’ to ‘`-rw-rw-rw-`’ to make a file world-writable. These changes also take effect when you type `C-c C-c`.
