---
slug: Transforming-File-Names
---

This section describes Dired commands which alter file names in a systematic way. Each command operates on some or all of the marked files, using a new name made by transforming the existing name.

Like the basic Dired file-manipulation commands (see [Operating on Files](/docs/emacs/Operating-on-Files)), the commands described here operate either on the next `n` files, or on all files marked with ‘`*`’, or on the current file. (To mark files, use the commands described in [Marks vs Flags](/docs/emacs/Marks-vs-Flags).)

All of the commands described in this section work *interactively*: they ask you to confirm the operation for each candidate file. Thus, you can select more files than you actually need to operate on (e.g., with a regexp that matches many files), and then filter the selected names by typing `y` or `n` when the command prompts for confirmation.

### `% u`

Rename each of the selected files to an upper-case name (`dired-upcase`). If the old file names are `Foo` and `bar`, the new names are `FOO` and `BAR`.

### `% l`

Rename each of the selected files to a lower-case name (`dired-downcase`). If the old file names are `Foo` and `bar`, the new names are `foo` and `bar`.

### `% R from RET to RET`

### `% C from RET to RET`

### `% H from RET to RET`

### `% S from RET to RET`

These four commands rename, copy, make hard links and make soft links, in each case computing the new name by regular-expression substitution from the name of the old file.

The four regular-expression substitution commands effectively perform a search-and-replace on the selected file names. They read two arguments: a regular expression `from`, and a substitution pattern `to`; they match each old file name against `from`, and then replace the matching part with `to`. You can use ‘`\&`’ and ‘`\digit`’ in `to` to refer to all or part of what the pattern matched in the old file name, as in `replace-regexp` (see [Regexp Replace](/docs/emacs/Regexp-Replace)). If the regular expression matches more than once in a file name, only the first match is replaced.

For example, `% R ^.*$ RET x-\& RET` renames each selected file by prepending ‘`x-`’ to its name. The inverse of this, removing ‘`x-`’ from the front of each file name, is also possible: one method is `% R ^x-\(.*\)$ RET \1 RET`; another is `% R ^x- RET RET`. (Use ‘`^`’ and ‘`$`’ to anchor matches that should span the whole file name.)

Normally, the replacement process does not consider the files’ directory names; it operates on the file name within the directory. If you specify a numeric argument of zero, then replacement affects the entire absolute file name including directory name. (A non-zero argument specifies the number of files to operate on.)

You may want to select the set of files to operate on using the same regexp `from` that you will use to operate on them. To do this, mark those files with `% m from RET`, then use the same regular expression in the command to operate on the files. To make this more convenient, the `%` commands to operate on files use the last regular expression specified in any `%` command as a default.
