---
slug: Importing-Diary
---

You can transfer diary entries between Emacs diary files and a variety of other formats.

You can import diary entries from Outlook-generated appointment messages. While viewing such a message in Rmail or Gnus, do `M-x diary-from-outlook` to import the entry. You can make this command recognize additional appointment message formats by customizing the variable `diary-outlook-formats`. Other mail clients can set `diary-from-outlook-function` to an appropriate value.

The icalendar package allows you to transfer data between your Emacs diary file and iCalendar files, which are defined in RFC 2445—Internet Calendaring and Scheduling Core Object Specification (iCalendar) (as well as the earlier vCalendar format).

The command `icalendar-import-buffer` extracts iCalendar data from the current buffer and adds it to your diary file. This function is also suitable for automatic extraction of iCalendar data; for example with the Rmail mail client one could use:

```lisp
(add-hook 'rmail-show-message-hook 'icalendar-import-buffer)
```

The command `icalendar-import-file` imports an iCalendar file and adds the results to an Emacs diary file. For example:

```lisp
(icalendar-import-file "/here/is/calendar.ics"
                       "/there/goes/ical-diary")
```

You can use an `#include` directive to add the import file contents to the main diary file, if these are different files. See [Fancy Diary Display](/docs/emacs/Fancy-Diary-Display).

Use `icalendar-export-file` to interactively export an entire Emacs diary file to iCalendar format. To export only a part of a diary file, mark the relevant area, and call `icalendar-export-region`. In both cases, Emacs appends the result to the target file.
