---
slug: Date-Formats
---

Here are some sample diary entries, illustrating different ways of formatting a date. The examples all show dates in American order (month, day, year), but Calendar mode supports European order (day, month, year) and ISO order (year, month, day) as options.

```lisp
4/20/12  Switch-over to new tabulation system
apr. 25  Start tabulating annual results
4/30  Results for April are due
*/25  Monthly cycle finishes
Friday  Don't leave without backing up files
```

The first entry appears only once, on April 20, 2012. The second and third appear every year on the specified dates, and the fourth uses a wildcard (asterisk) for the month, so it appears on the 25th of every month. The final entry appears every week on Friday.

You can use just numbers to express a date, as in ‘`month/day`’ or ‘`month/day/year`’. This must be followed by a nondigit. In the date itself, `month` and `day` are numbers of one or two digits. The optional `year` is also a number, and may be abbreviated to the last two digits; that is, you can use ‘`11/12/2012`’ or ‘`11/12/12`’.

Dates can also have the form ‘`monthname day`’ or ‘`monthname day, year`’, where the month’s name can be spelled in full or abbreviated (with or without a period). The preferred abbreviations for month and day names can be set using the variables `calendar-abbrev-length`, `calendar-month-abbrev-array`, and `calendar-day-abbrev-array`. The default is to use the first three letters of a name as its abbreviation. Case is not significant.

A date may be *generic*; that is, partially unspecified. Then the entry applies to all dates that match the specification. If the date does not contain a year, it is generic and applies to any year. Alternatively, `month`, `day`, or `year` can be ‘`*`’; this matches any month, day, or year, respectively. Thus, a diary entry ‘`3/*/*`’ matches any day in March of any year; so does ‘`march *`’.

If you prefer the European style of writing dates (in which the day comes before the month), or the ISO style (in which the order is year, month, day), type `M-x calendar-set-date-style` while in the calendar, or customize the variable `calendar-date-style`. This affects how diary dates are interpreted, date display, and the order in which some commands expect their arguments to be given.

You can use the name of a day of the week as a generic date which applies to any date falling on that day of the week. You can abbreviate the day of the week as described above, or spell it in full; case is not significant.
