---
slug: Non_002dGregorian-Diary
---

As well as entries based on the standard Gregorian calendar, your diary can have entries based on Bahá’í, Chinese, Hebrew, or Islamic dates. Recognition of such entries can be time-consuming, however, and since most people don’t use them, you must explicitly enable their use. If you want the diary to recognize Hebrew-date diary entries, for example, you must do this:

```lisp
(add-hook 'diary-nongregorian-listing-hook 'diary-hebrew-list-entries)
(add-hook 'diary-nongregorian-marking-hook 'diary-hebrew-mark-entries)
```

Similarly, for Islamic, Bahá’í and Chinese entries, add `diary-islamic-list-entries` and `diary-islamic-mark-entries`, `diary-bahai-list-entries` and `diary-bahai-mark-entries`, or `diary-chinese-list-entries` and `diary-chinese-mark-entries`.

These diary entries have the same formats as Gregorian-date diary entries; except that `diary-bahai-entry-symbol` (default ‘`B`’) must precede a Bahá’í date, `diary-chinese-entry-symbol` (default ‘`C`’) a Chinese date, `diary-hebrew-entry-symbol` (default ‘`H`’) a Hebrew date, and `diary-islamic-entry-symbol` (default ‘`I`’) an Islamic date. Moreover, non-Gregorian month names may not be abbreviated (because the first three letters are often not unique). (Note also that you must use “Adar I" if you want Adar of a common Hebrew year.) For example, a diary entry for the Hebrew date Heshvan 25 could look like this:

```lisp
HHeshvan 25 Happy Hebrew birthday!
```

and would appear in the diary for any date that corresponds to Heshvan 25 on the Hebrew calendar. And here is an Islamic-date diary entry that matches Dhu al-Qada 25:

```lisp
IDhu al-Qada 25 Happy Islamic birthday!
```

As with Gregorian-date diary entries, non-Gregorian entries are nonmarking if preceded by `diary-nonmarking-symbol` (default ‘`&`’).

Here is a table of commands used in the calendar to create diary entries that match the selected date and other dates that are similar in the Bahá’í, Chinese, Hebrew, or Islamic calendars:

### `i h d`

`diary-hebrew-insert-entry`

### `i h m`

`diary-hebrew-insert-monthly-entry`

### `i h y`

`diary-hebrew-insert-yearly-entry`

### `i i d`

`diary-islamic-insert-entry`

### `i i m`

`diary-islamic-insert-monthly-entry`

### `i i y`

`diary-islamic-insert-yearly-entry`

### `i B d`

`diary-bahai-insert-entry`

### `i B m`

`diary-bahai-insert-monthly-entry`

### `i B y`

`diary-bahai-insert-yearly-entry`

### `i C d`

`diary-chinese-insert-entry`

### `i C m`

`diary-chinese-insert-monthly-entry`

### `i C y`

`diary-chinese-insert-yearly-entry`

### `i C a`

`diary-chinese-insert-anniversary-entry`

These commands work much like the corresponding commands for ordinary diary entries: they apply to the date that point is on in the calendar window, and what they do is insert just the date portion of a diary entry at the end of your diary file. You must then insert the rest of the diary entry. The basic commands add an entry for the specific non-Gregorian date, the ‘`monthly`’ commands for the given non-Gregorian day-within-month in every month, and the ‘`yearly`’ commands for the given non-Gregorian day and month in every year.
