---
slug: Movemail
---

Rmail uses the `movemail` program to move mail from your inbox to your Rmail file (see [Rmail Inbox](/docs/emacs/Rmail-Inbox)). When loaded for the first time, Rmail attempts to locate the `movemail` program and determine its version. There are two versions of the `movemail` program: the GNU Mailutils version (see [movemail](https://www.gnu.org/software/mailutils/manual/mailutils.html#movemail) in GNU mailutils), and an Emacs-specific version that is built and installed unless Emacs was configured `--with-mailutils` in effect. The two `movemail` versions support the same command line syntax and the same basic subset of options. However, the Mailutils version offers additional features and is more secure.

The Emacs version of `movemail` can retrieve mail from the usual Unix mailbox formats. **Warning**: Although it can also use the POP3 protocol, this is not recommended because it does not support POP3 via encrypted TLS channels.

The Mailutils version is able to handle a wide set of mailbox formats, such as plain Unix mailboxes, `maildir` and `MH` mailboxes, etc. It is able to access remote mailboxes using the POP3 or IMAP4 protocol, and can retrieve mail from them using a TLS encrypted channel. It also accepts mailbox arguments in URL form. The detailed description of mailbox URLs can be found in [URL](https://www.gnu.org/software/mailutils/manual/mailutils.html#URL) in Mailbox URL Formats. In short, a URL is:

```lisp
proto://[user[:password]@]host-or-file-name[:port]
```

where square brackets denote optional elements.

### `proto`

Specifies the *mailbox protocol*, or *format* to use. The exact semantics of the rest of URL elements depends on the actual value of `proto` (see below).

### `user`

User name to access the remote mailbox.

### `password`

User password to access the remote mailbox.

### `host-or-file-name`

Hostname of the remote server for remote mailboxes or file name of a local mailbox.

### `port`

Optional port number, if not the default for that protocol.

`proto` can be one of:

### `mbox`

Usual Unix mailbox format. In this case, `user`, `pass` and `port` are not used, and `host-or-file-name` denotes the file name of the mailbox file, e.g., `mbox:///var/spool/mail/smith`.

### `mh`

A local mailbox in the MH format. `user`, `pass` and `port` are not used. `host-or-file-name` denotes the name of MH folder, e.g., `mh:///Mail/inbox`.

### `maildir`

A local mailbox in the maildir format. `user`, `pass` and `port` are not used, and `host-or-file-name` denotes the name of `maildir` mailbox, e.g., `maildir:///mail/inbox`.

### `file`

Any local file in mailbox format. Its actual format is detected automatically by `movemail`.

### `pop`

### `pops`

A remote mailbox to be accessed via POP3 protocol. `user` specifies the remote user name to use, `pass` may be used to specify the user password, `host-or-file-name` is the name or IP address of the remote mail server to connect to, and `port` is the port number; e.g., `pop://smith:guessme@remote.server.net:995`. If the server supports it, `movemail` tries to use an encrypted connection—use the ‘`pops`’ form to require one.

### `imap`

### `imaps`

A remote mailbox to be accessed via IMAP4 protocol. `user` specifies the remote user name to use, `pass` may be used to specify the user password, `host-or-file-name` is the name or IP address of the remote mail server to connect to, and `port` is the port number; e.g., `imap://smith:guessme@remote.server.net:993`. If the server supports it, `movemail` tries to use an encrypted connection—use the ‘`imaps`’ form to require one.

Alternatively, you can specify the file name of the mailbox to use. This is equivalent to specifying the ‘`file`’ protocol:

```lisp
/var/spool/mail/user ≡ file:///var/spool/mail/user
```

The variable `rmail-movemail-program` controls which version of `movemail` to use. If that is a string, it specifies the absolute file name of the `movemail` executable. If it is `nil`, Rmail searches for `movemail` in the directories listed in `rmail-movemail-search-path`, then in `exec-path` (see [Shell](/docs/emacs/Shell)), then in `exec-directory`.
