---
slug: Rmail-Make-Summary
---

Here are the commands to create a summary for the current Rmail buffer. Once the Rmail buffer has a summary, changes in the Rmail buffer (such as deleting or expunging messages, and getting new mail) automatically update the summary.

### `h`

### `C-M-h`

Summarize all messages (`rmail-summary`).

### `l labels RET`

### `C-M-l labels RET`

Summarize messages that have one or more of the specified labels (`rmail-summary-by-labels`).

### `C-M-r rcpts RET`

Summarize messages that match the specified recipients (`rmail-summary-by-recipients`).

### `C-M-t topic RET`

Summarize messages that have a match for the specified regexp `topic` in their subjects (`rmail-summary-by-topic`).

### `C-M-s regexp RET`

Summarize messages whose headers match the specified regular expression `regexp` (`rmail-summary-by-regexp`).

### `C-M-f senders RET`

Summarize messages that match the specified senders. (`rmail-summary-by-senders`).

The `h` or `C-M-h` (`rmail-summary`) command fills the summary buffer for the current Rmail buffer with a summary of all the messages in the buffer. It then displays and selects the summary buffer in another window.

`C-M-l labels RET` (`rmail-summary-by-labels`) makes a partial summary mentioning only the messages that have one or more of the labels `labels`. `labels` should contain label names separated by commas.

`C-M-r rcpts RET` (`rmail-summary-by-recipients`) makes a partial summary mentioning only the messages that have one or more recipients matching the regular expression `rcpts`. This is matched against the ‘`To`’, ‘`From`’, and ‘`CC`’ headers (supply a prefix argument to exclude the ‘`CC`’ header).

`C-M-t topic RET` (`rmail-summary-by-topic`) makes a partial summary mentioning only the messages whose subjects have a match for the regular expression `topic`. With a prefix argument, the match is against the whole message, not just the subject.

`C-M-s regexp RET` (`rmail-summary-by-regexp`) makes a partial summary that mentions only the messages whose headers (including the date and the subject lines) match the regular expression `regexp`.

`C-M-f senders RET` (`rmail-summary-by-senders`) makes a partial summary that mentions only the messages whose ‘`From`’ fields match the regular expression `senders`.

Note that there is only one summary buffer for any Rmail buffer; making any kind of summary discards any previous summary.

The variable `rmail-summary-window-size` says how many lines to use for the summary window. The variable `rmail-summary-line-count-flag` controls whether the summary line for a message should include the line count of the message. Setting this option to `nil` might speed up the generation of summaries.
