---
slug: Rmail-Attributes
---

Some labels such as ‘`deleted`’ and ‘`filed`’ have built-in meanings, and Rmail assigns them to messages automatically at appropriate times; these labels are called *attributes*. Here is a list of Rmail attributes:

### ‘`unseen`’

Means the message has never been current. Assigned to messages when they come from an inbox file, and removed when a message is made current. When you start Rmail, it initially shows the first message that has this attribute.

### ‘`deleted`’

Means the message is deleted. Assigned by deletion commands and removed by undeletion commands (see [Rmail Deletion](/docs/emacs/Rmail-Deletion)).

### ‘`filed`’

Means the message has been copied to some other file. Assigned by the `o` and `C-o` file output commands (see [Rmail Output](/docs/emacs/Rmail-Output)).

### ‘`answered`’

Means you have mailed an answer to the message. Assigned by the `r` command (`rmail-reply`). See [Rmail Reply](/docs/emacs/Rmail-Reply).

### ‘`forwarded`’

Means you have forwarded the message. Assigned by the `f` command (`rmail-forward`). See [Rmail Reply](/docs/emacs/Rmail-Reply).

### ‘`edited`’

Means you have edited the text of the message within Rmail. See [Rmail Editing](/docs/emacs/Rmail-Editing).

### ‘`resent`’

Means you have resent the message. Assigned by the command `M-x rmail-resend`. See [Rmail Reply](/docs/emacs/Rmail-Reply).

### ‘`retried`’

Means you have retried a failed outgoing message. Assigned by the command `M-x rmail-retry-failure`. See [Rmail Reply](/docs/emacs/Rmail-Reply).

All other labels are assigned or removed only by users, and have no standard meaning.
