---
slug: Invoking-emacsclient
---

The simplest way to use the `emacsclient` program is to run the shell command ‘`emacsclient file`’, where `file` is a file name. This connects to an Emacs server, and tells that Emacs process to visit `file` in one of its existing frames—either a graphical frame, or one in a text terminal (see [Frames](Frames)). You can then select that frame to begin editing.

If there is no Emacs server, the `emacsclient` program halts with an error message (you can prevent this from happening by using the ‘`--alternate-editor=""`’ option to `emacsclient`, see [emacsclient Options](emacsclient-Options)). If the Emacs process has no existing frame—which can happen if it was started as a daemon (see [Emacs Server](Emacs-Server))—then Emacs opens a frame on the terminal in which you called `emacsclient`.

You can also force `emacsclient` to open a new frame on a graphical display using the ‘`-c`’ option, or on a text terminal using the ‘`-t`’ option. See [emacsclient Options](emacsclient-Options).

If you are running on a single text terminal, you can switch between `emacsclient`’s shell and the Emacs server using one of two methods: (i) run the Emacs server and `emacsclient` on different virtual terminals, and switch to the Emacs server’s virtual terminal after calling `emacsclient`; or (ii) call `emacsclient` from within the Emacs server itself, using Shell mode (see [Interactive Shell](Interactive-Shell)) or Term mode (see [Term Mode](Term-Mode)); `emacsclient` blocks only the subshell under Emacs, and you can still use Emacs to edit the file.

When you finish editing `file` in the Emacs server, type `C-x #` (`server-edit`) in its buffer. This saves the file and sends a message back to the `emacsclient` program, telling it to exit. Programs that use `EDITOR` usually wait for the editor—in this case `emacsclient`—to exit before doing something else.

You can also call `emacsclient` with multiple file name arguments: ‘`emacsclient file1 file2 ...`’ tells the Emacs server to visit `file1`, `file2`, and so forth. Emacs selects the buffer visiting `file1`, and buries the other buffers at the bottom of the buffer list (see [Buffers](Buffers)). The `emacsclient` program exits once all the specified files are finished (i.e., once you have typed `C-x #` in each server buffer).

Finishing with a server buffer also kills the buffer, unless it already existed in the Emacs session before the server was asked to create it. However, if you set `server-kill-new-buffers` to `nil`, then a different criterion is used: finishing with a server buffer kills it if the file name matches the regular expression `server-temp-file-regexp`. This is set up to distinguish certain temporary files.

Each `C-x #` checks for other pending external requests to edit various files, and selects the next such file. You can switch to a server buffer manually if you wish; you don’t have to arrive at it with `C-x #`. But `C-x #` is the way to tell `emacsclient` that you are finished.

If you set the value of the variable `server-window` to a window or a frame, `C-x #` always displays the next server buffer in that window or in that frame.
