---
slug: PostScript
---

These commands convert buffer contents to PostScript, either printing it or leaving it in another Emacs buffer.

### `M-x ps-print-buffer`

Print hardcopy of the current buffer in PostScript form.

### `M-x ps-print-region`

Print hardcopy of the current region in PostScript form.

### `M-x ps-print-buffer-with-faces`

Print hardcopy of the current buffer in PostScript form, showing the faces used in the text by means of PostScript features.

### `M-x ps-print-region-with-faces`

Print hardcopy of the current region in PostScript form, showing the faces used in the text.

### `M-x ps-spool-buffer`

Generate and spool a PostScript image for the current buffer text.

### `M-x ps-spool-region`

Generate and spool a PostScript image for the current region.

### `M-x ps-spool-buffer-with-faces`

Generate and spool a PostScript image for the current buffer, showing the faces used.

### `M-x ps-spool-region-with-faces`

Generate and spool a PostScript image for the current region, showing the faces used.

### `M-x ps-despool`

Send the spooled PostScript to the printer.

### `M-x handwrite`

Generate/print PostScript for the current buffer as if handwritten.

The `ps-print-buffer` and `ps-print-region` commands print buffer contents in PostScript form. One command prints the entire buffer; the other, just the region. The commands `ps-print-buffer-with-faces` and `ps-print-region-with-faces` behave similarly, but use PostScript features to show the faces (fonts and colors) of the buffer text.

Interactively, when you use a prefix argument (`C-u`), these commands prompt the user for a file name, and save the PostScript image in that file instead of sending it to the printer.

The commands whose names have ‘`spool`’ instead of ‘`print`’, generate the PostScript output in an Emacs buffer instead of sending it to the printer.

Use the command `ps-despool` to send the spooled images to the printer. This command sends the PostScript generated by ‘`-spool-`’ commands (see commands above) to the printer. With a prefix argument (`C-u`), it prompts for a file name, and saves the spooled PostScript image in that file instead of sending it to the printer.

`M-x handwrite` is more frivolous. It generates a PostScript rendition of the current buffer as a cursive handwritten document. It can be customized in group `handwrite`. This function only supports ISO 8859-1 characters.
