---
slug: Tabs-in-Picture
---

Two kinds of tab-like action are provided in Picture mode. Use `M-TAB` (`picture-tab-search`) for context-based tabbing. With no argument, it moves to a point underneath the next “interesting" character that follows whitespace in the previous nonblank line. “Next" here means “appearing at a horizontal position greater than the one point starts out at". With prefix argument, as in `C-u M-TAB`, this command moves to the next such interesting character in the current line. `M-TAB` does not change the text; it only moves point. “Interesting" characters are defined by the variable `picture-tab-chars`, which should define a set of characters. The syntax for this variable is like the syntax used inside of ‘`[…]`’ in a regular expression—but without the ‘`[`’ and the ‘`]`’. Its default value is `"!-~"`.

`TAB` itself runs `picture-tab`, which operates based on the current tab stop settings; it is the Picture mode equivalent of `tab-to-tab-stop`. Normally it just moves point, but with a numeric argument it clears the text that it moves over.

The context-based and tab-stop-based forms of tabbing are brought together by the command `C-c TAB` (`picture-set-tab-stops`). This command sets the tab stops to the positions which `M-TAB` would consider significant in the current line. The use of this command, together with `TAB`, can get the effect of context-based tabbing. But `M-TAB` is more convenient in the cases where it is sufficient.

It may be convenient to prevent use of actual tab characters in pictures. For example, this prevents `C-x TAB` from messing up the picture. You can do this by setting the variable `indent-tabs-mode` to `nil`.
