---
slug: Variables
---

A *variable* is a Lisp symbol which has a value. The symbol’s name is also called the *variable name*. A variable name can contain any characters that can appear in a file, but most variable names consist of ordinary words separated by hyphens.

The name of the variable serves as a compact description of its role. Most variables also have a *documentation string*, which describes what the variable’s purpose is, what kind of value it should have, and how the value will be used. You can view this documentation using the help command `C-h v` (`describe-variable`). See [Examining](/docs/emacs/Examining).

Emacs uses many Lisp variables for internal record keeping, but the most interesting variables for a non-programmer user are those meant for users to change—these are called *customizable variables* or *user options* (see [Easy Customization](/docs/emacs/Easy-Customization)). In the following sections, we will describe other aspects of Emacs variables, such as how to set them outside Customize.

Emacs Lisp allows any variable (with a few exceptions) to have any kind of value. However, many variables are meaningful only if assigned values of a certain type. For example, only numbers are meaningful values for `kill-ring-max`, which specifies the maximum length of the kill ring (see [Earlier Kills](/docs/emacs/Earlier-Kills)); if you give `kill-ring-max` a string value, commands such as `C-y` (`yank`) will signal an error. On the other hand, some variables don’t care about type; for instance, if a variable has one effect for `nil` values and another effect for non-`nil` values, then any value that is not the symbol `nil` induces the second effect, regardless of its type (by convention, we usually use the value `t`—a symbol which stands for “true"—to specify a non-`nil` value). If you set a variable using the customization buffer, you need not worry about giving it an invalid type: the customization buffer usually only allows you to enter meaningful values. When in doubt, use `C-h v` (`describe-variable`) to check the variable’s documentation string to see what kind of value it expects (see [Examining](/docs/emacs/Examining)).

|                                                            |    |                                                                                            |
| :--------------------------------------------------------- | -- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| • [Examining](/docs/emacs/Examining)                       |    | Examining or setting one variable’s value.                                                 |
| • [Hooks](/docs/emacs/Hooks)                               |    | Hook variables let you specify programs for parts of Emacs to run on particular occasions. |
| • [Locals](/docs/emacs/Locals)                             |    | Per-buffer values of variables.                                                            |
| • [File Variables](/docs/emacs/File-Variables)             |    | How files can specify variable values.                                                     |
| • [Directory Variables](/docs/emacs/Directory-Variables)   |    | How variable values can be specified by directory.                                         |
| • [Connection Variables](/docs/emacs/Connection-Variables) |    | Variables which are valid for buffers with a remote default directory.                     |
