---
slug: Function-Keys
---

Key sequences can contain function keys as well as ordinary characters. Just as Lisp characters (actually integers) represent keyboard characters, Lisp symbols represent function keys. If the function key has a word as its label, then that word is also the name of the corresponding Lisp symbol. Here are the conventional Lisp names for common function keys:

### `left`, `up`, `right`, `down`

Cursor arrow keys.

### `begin`, `end`, `home`, `next`, `prior`

Other cursor repositioning keys.

### `select`, `print`, `execute`, `backtab`

### `insert`, `undo`, `redo`, `clearline`

### `insertline`, `deleteline`, `insertchar`, `deletechar`

Miscellaneous function keys.

### `f1`, `f2`, … `f35`

Numbered function keys (across the top of the keyboard).

### `kp-add`, `kp-subtract`, `kp-multiply`, `kp-divide`

### `kp-backtab`, `kp-space`, `kp-tab`, `kp-enter`

### `kp-separator`, `kp-decimal`, `kp-equal`

### `kp-prior`, `kp-next`, `kp-end`, `kp-home`

### `kp-left`, `kp-up`, `kp-right`, `kp-down`

### `kp-insert `, `kp-delete`

Keypad keys (to the right of the regular keyboard), with names or punctuation.

### `kp-0`, `kp-1`, … `kp-9`

Keypad keys with digits.

### `kp-f1`, `kp-f2`, `kp-f3`, `kp-f4`

Keypad PF keys.

These names are conventional, but some systems (especially when using X) may use different names. To make certain what symbol is used for a given function key on your terminal, type `C-h c` followed by that key.

See [Init Rebinding](Init-Rebinding), for examples of binding function keys.

Many keyboards have a numeric keypad on the right-hand side. The numeric keys in the keypad double up as cursor motion keys, toggled by a key labeled ‘`Num Lock`’. By default, Emacs translates these keys to the corresponding keys on the main keyboard. For example, when ‘`Num Lock`’ is on, the key labeled ‘`8`’ on the numeric keypad produces `kp-8`, which is translated to `8`; when ‘`Num Lock`’ is off, the same key produces `kp-up`, which is translated to `UP`. If you rebind a key such as `8` or `UP`, it affects the equivalent keypad key too. However, if you rebind a ‘`kp-`’ key directly, that won’t affect its non-keypad equivalent. Note that the modified keys are not translated: for instance, if you hold down the `Meta` key while pressing the ‘`8`’ key on the numeric keypad, that generates `M-kp-8`.

Emacs provides a convenient method for binding the numeric keypad keys, using the variables `keypad-setup`, `keypad-numlock-setup`, `keypad-shifted-setup`, and `keypad-numlock-shifted-setup`. These can be found in the ‘`keyboard`’ customization group (see [Easy Customization](Easy-Customization)). You can rebind the keys to perform other tasks, such as issuing numeric prefix arguments.
