---
slug: Prefix-Keymaps
---

Internally, Emacs records only single events in each keymap. Interpreting a key sequence of multiple events involves a chain of keymaps: the first keymap gives a definition for the first event, which is another keymap, which is used to look up the second event in the sequence, and so on. Thus, a prefix key such as `C-x` or `ESC` has its own keymap, which holds the definition for the event that immediately follows that prefix.

The definition of a prefix key is usually the keymap to use for looking up the following event. The definition can also be a Lisp symbol whose function definition is the following keymap; the effect is the same, but it provides a command name for the prefix key that can be used as a description of what the prefix key is for. Thus, the binding of `C-x` is the symbol `Control-X-prefix`, whose function definition is the keymap for `C-x` commands. The definitions of `C-c`, `C-x`, `C-h`, and `ESC` as prefix keys appear in the global map, so these prefix keys are always available.

Aside from ordinary prefix keys, there is a fictitious “prefix key" which represents the menu bar; see [Menu Bar](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/elisp.html#Menu-Bar) in The Emacs Lisp Reference Manual, for special information about menu bar key bindings. Mouse button events that invoke pop-up menus are also prefix keys; see [Menu Keymaps](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/elisp.html#Menu-Keymaps) in The Emacs Lisp Reference Manual, for more details.

Some prefix keymaps are stored in variables with names:

*   `ctl-x-map` is the variable name for the map used for characters that follow `C-x`.
*   `help-map` is for characters that follow `C-h`.
*   `esc-map` is for characters that follow `ESC`. Thus, all Meta characters are actually defined by this map.
*   `ctl-x-4-map` is for characters that follow `C-x 4`.
*   `mode-specific-map` is for characters that follow `C-c`.
