---
slug: Modifier-Keys
---

The default key bindings in Emacs are set up so that modified alphabetical characters are case-insensitive. In other words, `C-A` does the same thing as `C-a`, and `M-A` does the same thing as `M-a`. This concerns only alphabetical characters, and does not apply to shifted versions of other keys; for instance, `C-@` is not the same as `C-2`.

A `Control`-modified alphabetical character is generally considered case-insensitive: Emacs always treats `C-A` as `C-a`, `C-B` as `C-b`, and so forth. The reason for this is historical: In non-graphical environments there is no distinction between those keystrokes. However, you can bind shifted `Control` alphabetical keystrokes in GUI frames:

```lisp
(global-set-key (kbd "C-S-n") #'previous-line)
```

For all other modifiers, you can make the modified alphabetical characters case-sensitive (even on non-graphical frames) when you customize Emacs. For instance, you could make `M-a` and `M-A` run different commands.

Although only the `Control` and `Meta` modifier keys are commonly used, Emacs supports three other modifier keys. These are called `Super`, `Hyper`, and `Alt`. Few terminals provide ways to use these modifiers; the key labeled `Alt` on most keyboards usually issues the `Meta` modifier, not `Alt`. The standard key bindings in Emacs do not include any characters with the `Super` and `Hyper` modifiers, and only a small number of standard key bindings use `Alt`. However, you can customize Emacs to assign meanings to key bindings that use these modifiers. The modifier bits are labeled as ‘`s-`’, ‘`H-`’ and ‘`A-`’ respectively.

Even if your keyboard lacks these additional modifier keys, you can enter it using `C-x @`: `C-x @ h` adds the Hyper flag to the next character, `C-x @ s` adds the Super flag, and `C-x @ a` adds the Alt flag. For instance, `C-x @ h C-a` is a way to enter `Hyper-Control-a`. (Unfortunately, there is no way to add two modifiers by using `C-x @` twice for the same character, because the first one goes to work on the `C-x`.)
