---
slug: Init-Syntax
---

The init file contains one or more Lisp expressions. Each of these consists of a function name followed by arguments, all surrounded by parentheses. For example, `(setq fill-column 60)` calls the function `setq` to set the variable `fill-column` (see [Filling](Filling)) to 60.

You can set any Lisp variable with `setq`, but with certain variables `setq` won’t do what you probably want in the init file. Some variables automatically become buffer-local when set with `setq`; what you want in the init file is to set the default value, using `setq-default`. Some customizable minor mode variables do special things to enable the mode when you set them with Customize, but ordinary `setq` won’t do that; to enable the mode in your init file, call the minor mode command. The following section has examples of both of these methods.

The second argument to `setq` is an expression for the new value of the variable. This can be a constant, a variable, or a function call expression. In the init file, constants are used most of the time. They can be:

### <span className="tag numbers">`numbers`</span>

Numbers are written in decimal, with an optional initial minus sign.

### <span className="tag strings">`strings`</span>

Lisp string syntax is the same as C string syntax with a few extra features. Use a double-quote character to begin and end a string constant.

In a string, you can include newlines and special characters literally. But often it is cleaner to use backslash sequences for them: ‘`\n`’ for newline, ‘`\b`’ for backspace, ‘`\r`’ for carriage return, ‘`\t`’ for tab, ‘`\f`’ for formfeed (control-L), ‘`\e`’ for escape, ‘`\\`’ for a backslash, ‘`\"`’ for a double-quote, or ‘`\ooo`’ for the character whose octal code is `ooo`. Backslash and double-quote are the only characters for which backslash sequences are mandatory.

‘`\C-`’ can be used as a prefix for a control character, as in ‘`\C-s`’ for ASCII control-S, and ‘`\M-`’ can be used as a prefix for a Meta character, as in ‘`\M-a`’ for `Meta-A` or ‘`\M-\C-a`’ for `Ctrl-Meta-A`.

See [Init Non-ASCII](Init-Non_002dASCII), for information about including non-ASCII in your init file.

### <span className="tag characters">`characters`</span>

Lisp character constant syntax consists of a ‘`?`’ followed by either a character or an escape sequence starting with ‘`\`’. Examples: `?x`, `?\n`, `?\"`, `?\)`. Note that strings and characters are not interchangeable in Lisp; some contexts require one and some contexts require the other.

See [Init Non-ASCII](Init-Non_002dASCII), for information about binding commands to keys which send non-ASCII characters.

### <span className="tag true">`true`</span>

`t` stands for “true".

### <span className="tag false">`false`</span>

`nil` stands for “false".

### <span className="tag otherlispobjects">`other lisp objects`</span>

Write a single-quote (`'`) followed by the Lisp object you want.
