---
slug: DEL-Does-Not-Delete
---

Every keyboard has a large key, usually labeled `BACKSPACE`, which is ordinarily used to erase the last character that you typed. In Emacs, this key is supposed to be equivalent to `DEL`.

When Emacs starts up on a graphical display, it determines automatically which key should be `DEL`. In some unusual cases, Emacs gets the wrong information from the system, and `BACKSPACE` ends up deleting forwards instead of backwards.

Some keyboards also have a `Delete` key, which is ordinarily used to delete forwards. If this key deletes backward in Emacs, that too suggests Emacs got the wrong information—but in the opposite sense.

On a text terminal, if you find that `BACKSPACE` prompts for a Help command, like `Control-h`, instead of deleting a character, it means that key is actually sending the ‘`BS`’ character. Emacs ought to be treating `BS` as `DEL`, but it isn’t.

In all of those cases, the immediate remedy is the same: use the command `M-x normal-erase-is-backspace-mode`. This toggles between the two modes that Emacs supports for handling `DEL`, so if Emacs starts in the wrong mode, this should switch to the right mode. On a text terminal, if you want to ask for help when `BS` is treated as `DEL`, use `F1` instead of `C-h`; `C-?` may also work, if it sends character code 127.

To fix the problem in every Emacs session, put one of the following lines into your initialization file (see [Init File](/docs/emacs/Init-File)). For the first case above, where `BACKSPACE` deletes forwards instead of backwards, use this line to make `BACKSPACE` act as `DEL`:

```lisp
(normal-erase-is-backspace-mode 0)
```

For the other two cases, use this line:

```lisp
(normal-erase-is-backspace-mode 1)
```

Another way to fix the problem for every Emacs session is to customize the variable `normal-erase-is-backspace`: the value `t` specifies the mode where `BS` or `BACKSPACE` is `DEL`, and `nil` specifies the other mode. See [Easy Customization](/docs/emacs/Easy-Customization).
