---
slug: Inserting-Text
---

You can insert an ordinary *graphic character* (e.g., ‘`a`’, ‘`B`’, ‘`3`’, and ‘`=`’) by typing the associated key. This adds the character to the buffer at point. Insertion moves point forward, so that point remains just after the inserted text. See [Point](Point).

To end a line and start a new one, type `RET` (`newline`). (The `RET` key may be labeled `Return`, or `Enter`, or with a funny-looking left-pointing arrow on your keyboard, but we refer to it as `RET` in this manual.) This command inserts a newline character into the buffer, then indents (see [Indentation](Indentation)) according to the major mode. If point is at the end of the line, the effect is to create a new blank line after it and indent the new line; if point is in the middle of a line, the line is split at that position. To turn off the auto-indentation, you can either disable Electric Indent mode (see [Indent Convenience](Indent-Convenience)) or type `C-j`, which inserts just a newline, without any auto-indentation.

As we explain later in this manual, you can change the way Emacs handles text insertion by turning on *minor modes*. For instance, the minor mode called Auto Fill mode splits lines automatically when they get too long (see [Filling](Filling)). The minor mode called Overwrite mode causes inserted characters to replace (overwrite) existing text, instead of shoving it to the right. See [Minor Modes](Minor-Modes).

Only graphic characters can be inserted by typing the associated key; other keys act as editing commands and do not insert themselves. For instance, `DEL` runs the command `delete-backward-char` by default (some modes bind it to a different command); it does not insert a literal ‘`DEL`’ character (ASCII character code 127).

To insert a non-graphic character, or a character that your keyboard does not support, first *quote* it by typing `C-q` (`quoted-insert`). There are two ways to use `C-q`:

*   `C-q` followed by any non-graphic character (even `C-g`) inserts that character. For instance, `C-q DEL` inserts a literal ‘`DEL`’ character.

*   `C-q` followed by a sequence of octal digits inserts the character with the specified octal character code. You can use any number of octal digits; any non-digit terminates the sequence. If the terminating character is `RET`, that `RET` serves only to terminate the sequence. Any other non-digit terminates the sequence and then acts as normal input—thus, `C-q 1 0 1 B` inserts ‘`AB`’.

    The use of octal sequences is disabled in ordinary non-binary Overwrite mode, to give you a convenient way to insert a digit instead of overwriting with it.

To use decimal or hexadecimal instead of octal, set the variable `read-quoted-char-radix` to 10 or 16. If the radix is 16, the letters `a` to `f` serve as part of a character code, just like digits. Case is ignored.

A few common Unicode characters can be inserted via a command starting with `C-x 8`. For example, `C-x 8 [` inserts `‘` which is Unicode code-point U+2018 LEFT SINGLE QUOTATION MARK, sometimes called a left single “curved quote" or “curly quote". Similarly, `C-x 8 ]`, `C-x 8 {` and `C-x 8 }` insert the curved quotes `’`, `“` and `”`, respectively. Also, a working `Alt` key acts like `C-x 8` (unless followed by `RET`); e.g., `A-[` acts like `C-x 8 [` and inserts `‘`. To see which characters have `C-x 8` shorthands, type `C-x 8 C-h`.

Alternatively, you can use the command `C-x 8 RET` (`insert-char`). This prompts for the Unicode name or code-point of a character, using the minibuffer. If you enter a name, the command provides completion (see [Completion](Completion)). If you enter a code-point, it should be as a hexadecimal number (the convention for Unicode), or a number with a specified radix, e.g., `#o23072` (octal); See [Integer Basics](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/elisp.html#Integer-Basics) in The Emacs Lisp Reference Manual. The command then inserts the corresponding character into the buffer.

For example, the following all insert the same character:

```lisp
C-x 8 RET left single quotation mark RET
C-x 8 RET left sin TAB RET
C-x 8 RET 2018 RET
C-x 8 [
A-[  (if the Alt key works)
`    (in Electric Quote mode)
```

A numeric argument to `C-q` or `C-x 8 ...` specifies how many copies of the character to insert (see [Arguments](Arguments)).

In addition, in some contexts, if you type a quotation using grave accent and apostrophe `` `like this' ``, it is converted to a form `‘like this’` using single quotation marks, even without `C-x 8` commands. Similarly, typing a quotation ` ``like this'' ` using double grave accent and apostrophe converts it to a form `“like this”` using double quotation marks. See [Quotation Marks](Quotation-Marks).
