---
slug: Completion-Commands
---

Here is a list of the completion commands defined in the minibuffer when completion is allowed.

### `TAB`

Complete the text in the minibuffer as much as possible; if unable to complete, display a list of possible completions (`minibuffer-complete`).

### `SPC`

Complete up to one word from the minibuffer text before point (`minibuffer-complete-word`). This command is not available for arguments that often include spaces, such as file names.

### `RET`

Submit the text in the minibuffer as the argument, possibly completing first (`minibuffer-complete-and-exit`). See [Completion Exit](Completion-Exit).

### `?`

Display a list of completions (`minibuffer-completion-help`).

`TAB` (`minibuffer-complete`) is the most fundamental completion command. It searches for all possible completions that match the existing minibuffer text, and attempts to complete as much as it can. See [Completion Styles](Completion-Styles), for how completion alternatives are chosen.

`SPC` (`minibuffer-complete-word`) completes like `TAB`, but only up to the next hyphen or space. If you have ‘`auto-f`’ in the minibuffer and type `SPC`, it finds that the completion is ‘`auto-fill-mode`’, but it only inserts ‘`ill-`’, giving ‘`auto-fill-`’. Another `SPC` at this point completes all the way to ‘`auto-fill-mode`’.

If `TAB` or `SPC` is unable to complete, it displays a list of matching completion alternatives (if there are any) in another window. You can display the same list with `?` (`minibuffer-completion-help`). The following commands can be used with the completion list:

### `M-v`

### `PageUp`

### `prior`

Typing `M-v`, while in the minibuffer, selects the window showing the completion list (`switch-to-completions`). This paves the way for using the commands below. `PageUp` or `prior` does the same. You can also select the window in other ways (see [Windows](Windows)).

### `RET`

### `mouse-1`

### `mouse-2`

While in the completion list buffer, this chooses the completion at point (`choose-completion`).

### `TAB`

### `RIGHT`

While in the completion list buffer, these keys move point to the following completion alternative (`next-completion`).

### `S-TAB`

### `LEFT`

While in the completion list buffer, these keys move point to the previous completion alternative (`previous-completion`).

### `q`

While in the completion list buffer, this quits the window showing it and selects the window showing the minibuffer (`quit-window`).

### `z`

While in the completion list buffer, kill it and delete the window showing it (`kill-current-buffer`).
