---
slug: Completion-Exit
---

When a command reads an argument using the minibuffer with completion, it also controls what happens when you type `RET` (`minibuffer-complete-and-exit`) to submit the argument. There are four types of behavior:

*   *Strict completion* accepts only exact completion matches. Typing `RET` exits the minibuffer only if the minibuffer text is an exact match, or completes to one. Otherwise, Emacs refuses to exit the minibuffer; instead it tries to complete, and if no completion can be done it momentarily displays ‘`[No match]`’ after the minibuffer text. (You can still leave the minibuffer by typing `C-g` to cancel the command.)

    An example of a command that uses this behavior is `M-x`, since it is meaningless for it to accept a non-existent command name.

*   *Cautious completion* is like strict completion, except `RET` exits only if the text is already an exact match. If the text completes to an exact match, `RET` performs that completion but does not exit yet; you must type a second `RET` to exit.

    Cautious completion is used for reading file names for files that must already exist, for example.

*   *Permissive completion* allows any input; the completion candidates are just suggestions. Typing `RET` does not complete, it just submits the argument as you have entered it.

*   *Permissive completion with confirmation* is like permissive completion, with an exception: if you typed `TAB` and this completed the text up to some intermediate state (i.e., one that is not yet an exact completion match), typing `RET` right afterward does not submit the argument. Instead, Emacs asks for confirmation by momentarily displaying ‘`[Confirm]`’ after the text; type `RET` again to confirm and submit the text. This catches a common mistake, in which one types `RET` before realizing that `TAB` did not complete as far as desired.

    You can tweak the confirmation behavior by customizing the variable `confirm-nonexistent-file-or-buffer`. The default value, `after-completion`, gives the behavior we have just described. If you change it to `nil`, Emacs does not ask for confirmation, falling back on permissive completion. If you change it to any other non-`nil` value, Emacs asks for confirmation whether or not the preceding command was `TAB`.

    This behavior is used by most commands that read file names, like `C-x C-f`, and commands that read buffer names, like `C-x b`.
