---
slug: Creating-Sections
---

### <span className="tag macro">`macro`</span> **magit-insert-section** *\&rest args*

Insert a section at point.

TYPE is the section type, a symbol. Many commands that act on the current section behave differently depending on that type. Also if a variable `magit-TYPE-section-map` exists, then use that as the text-property `keymap` of all text belonging to the section (but this may be overwritten in subsections). TYPE can also have the form `(eval FORM)` in which case FORM is evaluated at runtime.

Optional VALUE is the value of the section, usually a string that is required when acting on the section.

When optional HIDE is non-nil collapse the section body by default, i.e. when first creating the section, but not when refreshing the buffer. Otherwise, expand it by default. This can be overwritten using `magit-section-set-visibility-hook`. When a section is recreated during a refresh, then the visibility of predecessor is inherited and HIDE is ignored (but the hook is still honored).

BODY is any number of forms that actually insert the section’s heading and body. Optional NAME, if specified, has to be a symbol, which is then bound to the struct of the section being inserted.

Before BODY is evaluated the `start` of the section object is set to the value of `point` and after BODY was evaluated its `end` is set to the new value of `point`; BODY is responsible for moving `point` forward.

If it turns out inside BODY that the section is empty, then `magit-cancel-section` can be used to abort and remove all traces of the partially inserted section. This can happen when creating a section by washing Git’s output and Git didn’t actually output anything this time around.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-heading** *\&rest args*

Insert the heading for the section currently being inserted.

This function should only be used inside `magit-insert-section`.

When called without any arguments, then just set the `content` slot of the object representing the section being inserted to a marker at `point`. The section should only contain a single line when this function is used like this.

When called with arguments ARGS, which have to be strings, then insert those strings at point. The section should not contain any text before this happens and afterwards it should again only contain a single line. If the `face` property is set anywhere inside any of these strings, then insert all of them unchanged. Otherwise use the `magit-section-heading` face for all inserted text.

The `content` property of the section struct is the end of the heading (which lasts from `start` to `content`) and the beginning of the body (which lasts from `content` to `end`). If the value of `content` is nil, then the section has no heading and its body cannot be collapsed. If a section does have a heading then its height must be exactly one line, including a trailing newline character. This isn’t enforced; you are responsible for getting it right. The only exception is that this function does insert a newline character if necessary.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-cancel-section**

Cancel the section currently being inserted. This exits the innermost call to `magit-insert-section` and removes all traces of what has already happened inside that call.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-define-section-jumper** *sym title \&optional value*

Define an interactive function to go to section SYM. TITLE is the displayed title of the section.
