---
slug: Refreshing-Buffers
---

All commands that create a new Magit buffer or change what is being displayed in an existing buffer do so by calling `magit-mode-setup`. Among other things, that function sets the buffer local values of `default-directory` (to the top-level of the repository), `magit-refresh-function`, and `magit-refresh-args`.

Buffers are refreshed by calling the function that is the local value of `magit-refresh-function` (a function named `magit-*-refresh-buffer`, where `*` may be something like `diff`) with the value of `magit-refresh-args` as arguments.

### <span className="tag macro">`macro`</span> **magit-mode-setup** *buffer switch-func mode refresh-func \&optional refresh-args*

This function displays and selects BUFFER, turns on MODE, and refreshes a first time.

This function displays and optionally selects BUFFER by calling `magit-mode-display-buffer` with BUFFER, MODE and SWITCH-FUNC as arguments. Then it sets the local value of `magit-refresh-function` to REFRESH-FUNC and that of `magit-refresh-args` to REFRESH-ARGS. Finally it creates the buffer content by calling REFRESH-FUNC with REFRESH-ARGS as arguments.

All arguments are evaluated before switching to BUFFER.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-mode-display-buffer** *buffer mode \&optional switch-function*

This function display BUFFER in some window and select it. BUFFER may be a buffer or a string, the name of a buffer. The buffer is returned.

Unless BUFFER is already displayed in the selected frame, store the previous window configuration as a buffer local value, so that it can later be restored by `magit-mode-bury-buffer`.

The buffer is displayed and selected using SWITCH-FUNCTION. If that is `nil` then `pop-to-buffer` is used if the current buffer’s major mode derives from `magit-mode`. Otherwise `switch-to-buffer` is used.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **magit-refresh-function**

The value of this buffer-local variable is the function used to refresh the current buffer. It is called with `magit-refresh-args` as arguments.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **magit-refresh-args**

The list of arguments used by `magit-refresh-function` to refresh the current buffer. `magit-refresh-function` is called with these arguments.

The value is usually set using `magit-mode-setup`, but in some cases it’s also useful to provide commands that can change the value. For example, the `magit-diff-refresh` transient can be used to change any of the arguments used to display the diff, without having to specify again which differences should be shown, but `magit-diff-more-context`, `magit-diff-less-context` and `magit-diff-default-context` change just the `-U<N>` argument. In both case this is done by changing the value of this variable and then calling this `magit-refresh-function`.
