---
slug: Naming-Buffers
---

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-generate-buffer-name-function**

The function used to generate the names of Magit buffers.

Such a function should take the options `magit-uniquify-buffer-names` as well as `magit-buffer-name-format` into account. If it doesn’t, then should be clearly stated in the doc-string. And if it supports %-sequences beyond those mentioned in the doc-string of the option `magit-buffer-name-format`, then its own doc-string should describe the additions.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-generate-buffer-name-default-function** *mode*

This function returns a buffer name suitable for a buffer whose major-mode is MODE and which shows information about the repository in which `default-directory` is located.

This function uses `magit-buffer-name-format` and supporting all of the %-sequences mentioned the documentation of that option. It also respects the option `magit-uniquify-buffer-names`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-buffer-name-format**

The format string used to name Magit buffers.

At least the following %-sequences are supported:

*   `%m`

    The name of the major-mode, but with the `-mode` suffix removed.

*   `%M`

    Like `%m` but abbreviate `magit-status-mode` as `magit`.

*   `%v`

    The value the buffer is locked to, in parentheses, or an empty string if the buffer is not locked to a value.

*   `%V`

    Like `%v`, but the string is prefixed with a space, unless it is an empty string.

*   `%t`

    The top-level directory of the working tree of the repository, or if `magit-uniquify-buffer-names` is non-nil an abbreviation of that.

*   `%x`

    If `magit-uniquify-buffer-names` is nil "\*", otherwise the empty string. Due to limitations of the `uniquify` package, buffer names must end with the path.

*   `%T`

    Obsolete, use "%t%x" instead. Like `%t`, but append an asterisk if and only if `magit-uniquify-buffer-names` is nil.

The value should always contain `%m` or `%M`, `%v` or `%V`, and `%t` (or the obsolete `%T`). If `magit-uniquify-buffer-names` is non-nil, then the value must end with `%t` or `%t%x` (or the obsolete `%T`). See issue #2841.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-uniquify-buffer-names**

This option controls whether the names of Magit buffers are uniquified. If the names are not being uniquified, then they contain the full path of the top-level of the working tree of the corresponding repository. If they are being uniquified, then they end with the basename of the top-level, or if that would conflict with the name used for other buffers, then the names of all these buffers are adjusted until they no longer conflict.

This is done using the `uniquify` package; customize its options to control how buffer names are uniquified.
