---
slug: Switching-Buffers
---

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-display-buffer** *buffer \&optional display-function*

This function is a wrapper around `display-buffer` and is used to display any Magit buffer. It displays BUFFER in some window and, unlike `display-buffer`, also selects that window, provided `magit-display-buffer-noselect` is `nil`. It also runs the hooks mentioned below.

If optional DISPLAY-FUNCTION is non-nil, then that is used to display the buffer. Usually that is `nil` and the function specified by `magit-display-buffer-function` is used.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **magit-display-buffer-noselect**

When this is non-nil, then `magit-display-buffer` only displays the buffer but forgoes also selecting the window. This variable should not be set globally, it is only intended to be let-bound, by code that automatically updates "the other window". This is used for example when the revision buffer is updated when you move inside the log buffer.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-display-buffer-function**

The function specified here is called by `magit-display-buffer` with one argument, a buffer, to actually display that buffer. This function should call `display-buffer` with that buffer as first and a list of display actions as second argument.

Magit provides several functions, listed below, that are suitable values for this option. If you want to use different rules, then a good way of doing that is to start with a copy of one of these functions and then adjust it to your needs.

Instead of using a wrapper around `display-buffer`, that function itself can be used here, in which case the display actions have to be specified by adding them to `display-buffer-alist` instead.

To learn about display actions, see [(elisp)Choosing Window](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/elisp.html#Choosing-Window).

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-display-buffer-traditional** *buffer*

This function is the current default value of the option `magit-display-buffer-function`. Before that option and this function were added, the behavior was hard-coded in many places all over the code base but now all the rules are contained in this one function (except for the "noselect" special case mentioned above).

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-display-buffer-same-window-except-diff-v1**

This function displays most buffers in the currently selected window. If a buffer’s mode derives from `magit-diff-mode` or `magit-process-mode`, it is displayed in another window.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-display-buffer-fullframe-status-v1**

This function fills the entire frame when displaying a status buffer. Otherwise, it behaves like `magit-display-buffer-traditional`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-display-buffer-fullframe-status-topleft-v1**

This function fills the entire frame when displaying a status buffer. It behaves like `magit-display-buffer-fullframe-status-v1` except that it displays buffers that derive from `magit-diff-mode` or `magit-process-mode` to the top or left of the current buffer rather than to the bottom or right. As a result, Magit buffers tend to pop up on the same side as they would if `magit-display-buffer-traditional` were in use.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-display-buffer-fullcolumn-most-v1**

This function displays most buffers so that they fill the entire height of the frame. However, the buffer is displayed in another window if (1) the buffer’s mode derives from `magit-process-mode`, or (2) the buffer’s mode derives from `magit-diff-mode`, provided that the mode of the current buffer derives from `magit-log-mode` or `magit-cherry-mode`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-pre-display-buffer-hook**

This hook is run by `magit-display-buffer` before displaying the buffer.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-save-window-configuration**

This function saves the current window configuration. Later when the buffer is buried, it may be restored by `magit-restore-window-configuration`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-post-display-buffer-hook**

This hook is run by `magit-display-buffer` after displaying the buffer.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-maybe-set-dedicated**

This function remembers if a new window had to be created to display the buffer, or whether an existing window was reused. This information is later used by `magit-mode-quit-window`, to determine whether the window should be deleted when its last Magit buffer is buried.
