---
slug: Transient-Arguments-and-Buffer-Variables
---

The infix arguments of many of Magit’s transient prefix commands cease to have an effect once the `git` command that is called with those arguments has returned. Commands that create a commit are a good example for this. If the user changes the arguments, then that only affects the next invocation of a suffix command. If the same transient prefix command is later invoked again, then the arguments are initially reset to the default value. This default value can be set for the current Emacs session or saved permanently, see [(transient)Saving Values](https://magit.vc/manual/transient.html#Saving-Values). It is also possible to cycle through previously used sets of arguments using `M-p` and `M-n`, see [(transient)Using History](https://magit.vc/manual/transient.html#Using-History).

However the infix arguments of many other transient commands continue to have an effect even after the `git` command that was called with those arguments has returned. The most important commands like this are those that display a diff or log in a dedicated buffer. Their arguments obviously continue to have an effect for as long as the respective diff or log is being displayed. Furthermore the used arguments are stored in buffer-local variables for future reference.

For commands in the second group it isn’t always desirable to reset their arguments to the global value when the transient prefix command is invoked again.

As mentioned above, it is possible to cycle through previously used sets of arguments while a transient popup is visible. That means that we could always reset the infix arguments to the default because the set of arguments that is active in the existing buffer is only a few `M-p` away. Magit can be configured to behave like that, but because I expect that most users would not find that very convenient, it is not the default.

Also note that it is possible to change the diff and log arguments used in the current buffer (including the status buffer, which contains both diff and log sections) using the respective "refresh" transient prefix commands on `D` and `L`. (`d` and `l` on the other hand are intended to change **what** diff or log is being displayed. It is possible to also change **how** the diff or log is being displayed at the same time, but if you only want to do the latter, then you should use the refresh variants.) Because these secondary diff and log transient prefixes are about **changing** the arguments used in the current buffer, they **always** start out with the set of arguments that are currently in effect in that buffer.

Some commands are usually invoked directly even though they can also be invoked as the suffix of a transient prefix command. Most prominently `magit-show-commit` is usually invoked by typing `RET` while point is on a commit in a log, but it can also be invoked from the `magit-diff` transient prefix.

When such a command is invoked directly, then it is important to reuse the arguments as specified by the respective buffer-local values, instead of using the default arguments. Imagine you press `RET` in a log to display the commit at point in a different buffer and then use `D` to change how the diff is displayed in that buffer. And then you press `RET` on another commit to show that instead and the diff arguments are reset to the default. Not cool; so Magit does not do that by default.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-prefix-use-buffer-arguments**

This option controls whether the infix arguments initially shown in certain transient prefix commands are based on the arguments that are currently in effect in the buffer that their suffixes update.

The `magit-diff` and `magit-log` transient prefix commands are affected by this option.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-direct-use-buffer-arguments**

This option controls whether certain commands, when invoked directly (i.e. not as the suffix of a transient prefix command), use the arguments that are currently active in the buffer that they are about to update. The alternative is to use the default value for these arguments, which might change the arguments that are used in the buffer.

Valid values for both of the above options are:

*   `always`: Always use the set of arguments that is currently active in the respective buffer, provided that buffer exists of course.
*   `selected` or `t`: Use the set of arguments from the respective buffer, but only if it is displayed in a window of the current frame. This is the default for both variables.
*   `current`: Use the set of arguments from the respective buffer, but only if it is the current buffer.
*   `never`: Never use the set of arguments from the respective buffer.

I am afraid it gets more complicated still:

*   The global diff and log arguments are set for each supported mode individually. The diff arguments for example have different values in `magit-diff-mode`, `magit-revision-mode`, `magit-merge-preview-mode` and `magit-status-mode` buffers. Setting or saving the value for one mode does not change the value for other modes. The history however is shared.

*   When `magit-show-commit` is invoked directly from a log buffer, then the file filter is picked up from that buffer, not from the revision buffer or the mode’s global diff arguments.

*   Even though they are suffixes of the diff prefix `magit-show-commit` and `magit-stash-show` do not use the diff buffer used by the diff commands, instead they use the dedicated revision and stash buffers.

    At the time you invoke the diff prefix it is unknown to Magit which of the suffix commands you are going to invoke. While not certain, more often than not users invoke one of the commands that use the diff buffer, so the initial infix arguments are those used in that buffer. However if you invoke one of these commands directly, then Magit knows that it should use the arguments from the revision resp. stash buffer.

*   The log prefix also features reflog commands, but these commands do not use the log arguments.

*   If `magit-show-refs` is invoked from a `magit-refs-mode` buffer, then it acts as a refresh prefix and therefore unconditionally uses the buffer’s arguments as initial arguments. If it is invoked elsewhere with a prefix argument, then it acts as regular prefix and therefore respects `magit-prefix-use-buffer-arguments`. If it is invoked elsewhere without a prefix argument, then it acts as a direct command and therefore respects `magit-direct-use-buffer-arguments`.
