---
slug: Support-for-Completion-Frameworks
---

The built-in option `completing-read-function` specifies the low-level function used by `completing-read` to ask a user to select from a list of choices. Its default value is `completing-read-default`. Alternative completion frameworks typically activate themselves by substituting their own implementation.

Mostly for historic reasons Magit provides a similar option named `magit-completing-read-function`, which only controls the low-level function used by `magit-completing-read`. This option also makes it possible to use a different completing mechanism for Magit than for the rest of Emacs, but doing that is not recommend.

You most likely don’t have to customize the magit-specific option to use an alternative completion framework. For example, if you enable `ivy-mode`, then Magit will respect that, and if you enable `helm-mode`, then you are done too.

However if you want to use Ido, then `ido-mode` won’t do the trick. You will also have to install the `ido-completing-read+` package and use `magit-ido-completing-read` as `magit-completing-read-function`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-completing-read-function**

The value of this variable is the low-level function used to perform completion by code that uses `magit-completing-read` (as opposed to the built-in `completing-read`).

The default value, `magit-builtin-completing-read`, is suitable for the standard completion mechanism, `ivy-mode`, and `helm-mode` at least.

The built-in `completing-read` and `completing-read-default` are **not** suitable to be used here. `magit-builtin-completing-read` performs some additional work, and any function used in its place has to do the same.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-builtin-completing-read** *prompt choices \&optional predicate require-match initial-input hist def*

This function performs completion using the built-in `completing-read` and does some additional magit-specific work.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-ido-completing-read** *prompt choices \&optional predicate require-match initial-input hist def*

This function performs completion using `ido-completing-read+` from the package by the same name (which you have to explicitly install) and does some additional magit-specific work.

We have to use `ido-completing-read+` instead of the `ido-completing-read` that comes with Ido itself, because the latter, while intended as a drop-in replacement, cannot serve that purpose because it violates too many of the implicit conventions.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-completing-read** *prompt choices \&optional predicate require-match initial-input hist def fallback*

This is the function that Magit commands use when they need the user to select a single thing to act on. The arguments have the same meaning as for `completing-read`, except for FALLBACK, which is unique to this function and is described below.

Instead of asking the user to choose from a list of possible candidates, this function may just return the default specified by DEF, with or without requiring user confirmation. Whether that is the case depends on PROMPT, `this-command` and `magit-dwim-selection`. See the documentation of the latter for more information.

If it does read a value in the minibuffer, then this function acts similar to `completing-read`, except for the following:

*   COLLECTION must be a list of choices. A function is not supported.
*   If REQUIRE-MATCH is `nil` and the user exits without a choice, then `nil` is returned instead of an empty string.
*   If REQUIRE-MATCH is non-nil and the users exits without a choice, an user-error is raised.
*   FALLBACK specifies a secondary default that is only used if the primary default DEF is `nil`. The secondary default is not subject to `magit-dwim-selection` — if DEF is `nil` but FALLBACK is not, then this function always asks the user to choose a candidate, just as if both defaults were `nil`.
*   ": " is appended to PROMPT.
*   PROMPT is modified to end with \\" (default DEF|FALLBACK): \\" provided that DEF or FALLBACK is non-nil, that neither `ivy-mode` nor `helm-mode` is enabled, and that `magit-completing-read-function` is set to its default value of `magit-builtin-completing-read`.
