---
slug: Status-Header-Sections
---

The contents of status buffers is controlled using the hook `magit-status-sections-hook` (see [Status Sections](Status-Sections)).

By default `magit-insert-status-headers` is the first member of that hook variable.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-status-headers**

Insert headers sections appropriate for `magit-status-mode` buffers. The sections are inserted by running the functions on the hook `magit-status-headers-hook`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-status-headers-hook**

Hook run to insert headers sections into the status buffer.

This hook is run by `magit-insert-status-headers`, which in turn has to be a member of `magit-status-sections-hook` to be used at all.

By default the following functions are members of the above hook:

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-error-header**

Insert a header line showing the message about the Git error that just occurred.

This function is only aware of the last error that occur when Git was run for side-effects. If, for example, an error occurs while generating a diff, then that error won’t be inserted. Refreshing the status buffer causes this section to disappear again.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-diff-filter-header**

Insert a header line showing the effective diff filters.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-head-branch-header**

Insert a header line about the current branch or detached `HEAD`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-upstream-branch-header**

Insert a header line about the branch that is usually pulled into the current branch.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-push-branch-header**

Insert a header line about the branch that the current branch is usually pushed to.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-tags-header**

Insert a header line about the current and/or next tag, along with the number of commits between the tag and `HEAD`.

The following functions can also be added to the above hook:

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-repo-header**

Insert a header line showing the path to the repository top-level.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-remote-header**

Insert a header line about the remote of the current branch.

If no remote is configured for the current branch, then fall back showing the "origin" remote, or if that does not exist the first remote in alphabetic order.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-user-header**

Insert a header line about the current user.
