---
slug: Status-Module-Sections
---

The contents of status buffers is controlled using the hook `magit-status-sections-hook` (see [Status Sections](Status-Sections)).

By default `magit-insert-modules` is *not* a member of that hook variable.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-modules**

Insert submodule sections.

Hook `magit-module-sections-hook` controls which module sections are inserted, and option `magit-module-sections-nested` controls whether they are wrapped in an additional section.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-module-sections-hook**

Hook run by `magit-insert-modules`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-module-sections-nested**

This option controls whether `magit-insert-modules` wraps inserted sections in an additional section.

If this is non-nil, then only a single top-level section is inserted. If it is nil, then all sections listed in `magit-module-sections-hook` become top-level sections.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-modules-overview**

Insert sections for all submodules. For each section insert the path, the branch, and the output of `git describe --tags`, or, failing that, the abbreviated HEAD commit hash.

Press `RET` on such a submodule section to show its own status buffer. Press `RET` on the "Modules" section to display a list of submodules in a separate buffer. This shows additional information not displayed in the super-repository’s status buffer.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-modules-unpulled-from-upstream**

Insert sections for modules that haven’t been pulled from the upstream yet. These sections can be expanded to show the respective commits.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-modules-unpulled-from-pushremote**

Insert sections for modules that haven’t been pulled from the push-remote yet. These sections can be expanded to show the respective commits.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-modules-unpushed-to-upstream**

Insert sections for modules that haven’t been pushed to the upstream yet. These sections can be expanded to show the respective commits.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-modules-unpushed-to-pushremote**

Insert sections for modules that haven’t been pushed to the push-remote yet. These sections can be expanded to show the respective commits.
