---
slug: Status-Sections
---

The contents of status buffers is controlled using the hook `magit-status-sections-hook`. See [Section Hooks](/docs/magit/Section-Hooks) to learn about such hooks and how to customize them.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-status-sections-hook**

Hook run to insert sections into a status buffer.

The first function on that hook by default is `magit-insert-status-headers`; it is described in the next section. By default the following functions are also members of that hook:

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-merge-log**

Insert section for the on-going merge. Display the heads that are being merged. If no merge is in progress, do nothing.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-rebase-sequence**

Insert section for the on-going rebase sequence. If no such sequence is in progress, do nothing.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-am-sequence**

Insert section for the on-going patch applying sequence. If no such sequence is in progress, do nothing.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-sequencer-sequence**

Insert section for the on-going cherry-pick or revert sequence. If no such sequence is in progress, do nothing.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-bisect-output**

While bisecting, insert section with output from `git bisect`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-bisect-rest**

While bisecting, insert section visualizing the bisect state.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-bisect-log**

While bisecting, insert section logging bisect progress.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-untracked-files**

Maybe insert a list or tree of untracked files.

Do so depending on the value of `status.showUntrackedFiles`. Note that even if the value is `all`, Magit still initially only shows directories. But the directory sections can then be expanded using `TAB`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-unstaged-changes**

Insert section showing unstaged changes.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-staged-changes**

Insert section showing staged changes.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-stashes** *\&optional ref heading*

Insert the `stashes` section showing reflog for "refs/stash". If optional REF is non-nil show reflog for that instead. If optional HEADING is non-nil use that as section heading instead of "Stashes:".

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-unpulled-from-upstream**

Insert section showing commits that haven’t been pulled from the upstream branch yet.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-unpulled-from-pushremote**

Insert section showing commits that haven’t been pulled from the push-remote branch yet.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-unpushed-to-upstream**

Insert section showing commits that haven’t been pushed to the upstream yet.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-unpushed-to-pushremote**

Insert section showing commits that haven’t been pushed to the push-remote yet.

The following functions can also be added to the above hook:

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-tracked-files**

Insert a tree of tracked files.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-ignored-files**

Insert a tree of ignored files. Its possible to limit the logs in the current buffer to a certain directory using `D = f <DIRECTORY> RET g`. If you do that, then that that also affects this command.

The log filter can be used to limit to multiple files. In that case this function only respects the first of the files and only if it is a directory.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-skip-worktree-files**

Insert a tree of skip-worktree files. If the first element of `magit-buffer-diff-files` is a directory, then limit the list to files below that. The value of that variable can be set using `D -- DIRECTORY RET g`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-assumed-unchanged-files**

Insert a tree of files that are assumed to be unchanged. If the first element of `magit-buffer-diff-files` is a directory, then limit the list to files below that. The value of that variable can be set using `D -- DIRECTORY RET g`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-unpulled-or-recent-commits**

Insert section showing unpulled or recent commits. If an upstream is configured for the current branch and it is ahead of the current branch, then show the missing commits. Otherwise, show the last `magit-log-section-commit-count` commits.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-recent-commits**

Insert section showing the last `magit-log-section-commit-count` commits.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-log-section-commit-count**

How many recent commits `magit-insert-recent-commits` and `magit-insert-unpulled-or-recent-commits` (provided there are no unpulled commits) show.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-unpulled-cherries**

Insert section showing unpulled commits. Like `magit-insert-unpulled-commits` but prefix each commit that has not been applied yet (i.e. a commit with a patch-id not shared with any local commit) with "+", and all others with "-".

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-insert-unpushed-cherries**

Insert section showing unpushed commits. Like `magit-insert-unpushed-commits` but prefix each commit which has not been applied to upstream yet (i.e. a commit with a patch-id not shared with any upstream commit) with "+" and all others with "-".

See [References Buffer](/docs/magit/References-Buffer) for some more section inserters, which could be used here.
