---
slug: Repository-List
---

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **magit-list-repositories**

This command displays a list of repositories in a separate buffer.

The options `magit-repository-directories` and `magit-repository-directories-depth` control which repositories are displayed.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-repolist-columns**

This option controls what columns are displayed by the command `magit-list-repositories` and how they are displayed.

Each element has the form `(HEADER WIDTH FORMAT PROPS)`.

HEADER is the string displayed in the header. WIDTH is the width of the column. FORMAT is a function that is called with one argument, the repository identification (usually its basename), and with `default-directory` bound to the toplevel of its working tree. It has to return a string to be inserted or nil. PROPS is an alist that supports the keys `:right-align` and `:pad-right`.

You may wish to display a range of numeric columns using just one character per column and without any padding between columns, in which case you should use an appropriate HEADER, set WIDTH to 1, and set `:pad-right` to 0. `+` is substituted for numbers higher than 9.

The following functions can be added to the above option:

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-repolist-column-ident**

This function inserts the identification of the repository. Usually this is just its basename.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-repolist-column-path**

This function inserts the absolute path of the repository.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-repolist-column-version**

This function inserts a description of the repository’s `HEAD` revision.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-repolist-column-branch**

This function inserts the name of the current branch.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-repolist-column-upstream**

This function inserts the name of the upstream branch of the current branch.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-repolist-column-branches**

This function inserts the number of branches.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-repolist-column-stashes**

This function inserts the number of stashes.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-repolist-column-flag**

This function inserts a flag as specified by `magit-repolist-column-flag-alist`.

By default this indicates whether there are uncommitted changes.

*   `N` if there is at least one untracked file.
*   `U` if there is at least one unstaged file.
*   `S` if there is at least one staged file.

Only the first one of these that applies is shown.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-repolist-column-unpulled-from-upstream**

This function inserts the number of upstream commits not in the current branch.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-repolist-column-unpulled-from-pushremote**

This function inserts the number of commits in the push branch but not the current branch.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-repolist-column-unpushed-to-upstream**

This function inserts the number of commits in the current branch but not its upstream.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **magit-repolist-column-unpushed-to-pushremote**

This function inserts the number of commits in the current branch but not its push branch.
