---
slug: Log-Buffer
---

### `L`     (`magit-log-refresh`)

This transient prefix command binds the following suffix commands along with the appropriate infix arguments and displays them in a temporary buffer until a suffix is invoked.

See [Refreshing Logs](/docs/magit/Refreshing-Logs).

### `q`     (`magit-log-bury-buffer`)

Bury the current buffer or the revision buffer in the same frame. Like `magit-mode-bury-buffer` (which see) but with a negative prefix argument instead bury the revision buffer, provided it is displayed in the current frame.

### `C-c C-b`     (`magit-go-backward`)

Move backward in current buffer’s history.

### `C-c C-f`     (`magit-go-forward`)

Move forward in current buffer’s history.

### `C-c C-n`     (`magit-log-move-to-parent`)

Move to a parent of the current commit. By default, this is the first parent, but a numeric prefix can be used to specify another parent.

### `j`     (`magit-log-move-to-revision`)

Read a revision and move to it in current log buffer.

If the chosen reference or revision isn’t being displayed in the current log buffer, then inform the user about that and do nothing else.

If invoked outside any log buffer, then display the log buffer of the current repository first; creating it if necessary.

### `SPC`     (`magit-diff-show-or-scroll-up`)

Update the commit or diff buffer for the thing at point.

Either show the commit or stash at point in the appropriate buffer, or if that buffer is already being displayed in the current frame and contains information about that commit or stash, then instead scroll the buffer up. If there is no commit or stash at point, then prompt for a commit.

### `DEL`     (`magit-diff-show-or-scroll-down`)

Update the commit or diff buffer for the thing at point.

Either show the commit or stash at point in the appropriate buffer, or if that buffer is already being displayed in the current frame and contains information about that commit or stash, then instead scroll the buffer down. If there is no commit or stash at point, then prompt for a commit.

### `=`     (`magit-log-toggle-commit-limit`)

Toggle the number of commits the current log buffer is limited to. If the number of commits is currently limited, then remove that limit. Otherwise set it to 256.

### `+`     (`magit-log-double-commit-limit`)

Double the number of commits the current log buffer is limited to.

### `-`     (`magit-log-half-commit-limit`)

Half the number of commits the current log buffer is limited to.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-log-auto-more**

Insert more log entries automatically when moving past the last entry. Only considered when moving past the last entry with `magit-goto-*-section` commands.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-log-show-refname-after-summary**

Whether to show the refnames after the commit summaries. This is useful if you use really long branch names.

Magit displays references in logs a bit differently from how Git does it.

Local branches are blue and remote branches are green. Of course that depends on the used theme, as do the colors used for other types of references. The current branch has a box around it, as do remote branches that are their respective remote’s `HEAD` branch.

If a local branch and its push-target point at the same commit, then their names are combined to preserve space and to make that relationship visible. For example:

```lisp
origin/feature
[green][blue-]

instead of

feature origin/feature
[blue-] [green-------]
```

Also note that while the transient features the `--show-signature` argument, that won’t actually be used when enabled, because Magit defaults to use just one line per commit. Instead the commit colorized to indicate the validity of the signed commit object, using the faces named `magit-signature-*` (which see).

For a description of `magit-log-margin` see [Log Margin](/docs/magit/Log-Margin).
