---
slug: Cherries
---

Cherries are commits that haven’t been applied upstream (yet), and are usually visualized using a log. Each commit is prefixed with `-` if it has an equivalent in the upstream and `+` if it does not, i.e. if it is a cherry.

The command `magit-cherry` shows cherries for a single branch, but the references buffer (see [References Buffer](References-Buffer)) can show cherries for multiple "upstreams" at once.

Also see the [git-reflog(1)](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-reflog) manpage.

### `Y`     (`magit-cherry`)

Show commits that are in a certain branch but that have not been merged in the upstream branch.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-cherry-margin**

This option specifies whether the margin is initially shown in Magit-Cherry mode buffers and how it is formatted.

The value has the form `(INIT STYLE WIDTH AUTHOR AUTHOR-WIDTH)`.

*   If INIT is non-nil, then the margin is shown initially.
*   STYLE controls how to format the author or committer date. It can be one of `age` (to show the age of the commit), `age-abbreviated` (to abbreviate the time unit to a character), or a string (suitable for `format-time-string`) to show the actual date. Option `magit-log-margin-show-committer-date` controls which date is being displayed.
*   WIDTH controls the width of the margin. This exists for forward compatibility and currently the value should not be changed.
*   AUTHOR controls whether the name of the author is also shown by default.
*   AUTHOR-WIDTH has to be an integer. When the name of the author is shown, then this specifies how much space is used to do so.
