---
slug: Revision-Buffer
---

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-revision-insert-related-refs**

Whether to show related branches in revision buffers.

*   `nil` Don’t show any related branches.
*   `t` Show related local branches.
*   `all` Show related local and remote branches.
*   `mixed` Show all containing branches and local merged branches.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-revision-show-gravatars**

Whether to show gravatar images in revision buffers.

If `nil`, then don’t insert any gravatar images. If `t`, then insert both images. If `author` or `committer`, then insert only the respective image.

If you have customized the option `magit-revision-headers-format` and want to insert the images then you might also have to specify where to do so. In that case the value has to be a cons-cell of two regular expressions. The car specifies where to insert the author’s image. The top half of the image is inserted right after the matched text, the bottom half on the next line in the same column. The cdr specifies where to insert the committer’s image, accordingly. Either the car or the cdr may be nil."

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-revision-use-hash-sections**

Whether to turn hashes inside the commit message into sections.

If non-nil, then hashes inside the commit message are turned into `commit` sections. There is a trade off to be made between performance and reliability:

*   `slow` calls git for every word to be absolutely sure.
*   `quick` skips words less than seven characters long.
*   `quicker` additionally skips words that don’t contain a number.
*   `quickest` uses all words that are at least seven characters long and which contain at least one number as well as at least one letter.

If nil, then no hashes are turned into sections, but you can still visit the commit at point using "RET".

The diffs shown in the revision buffer may be automatically restricted to a subset of the changed files. If the revision buffer is displayed from a log buffer, the revision buffer will share the same file restriction as that log buffer (also see the command `magit-diff-toggle-file-filter`).

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-revision-filter-files-on-follow**

Whether showing a commit from a log buffer honors the log’s file filter when the log arguments include `--follow`.

When this option is nil, displaying a commit from a log ignores the log’s file filter if the log arguments include `--follow`. Doing so avoids showing an empty diff in revision buffers for commits before a rename event. In such cases, the `--patch` argument of the log transient can be used to show the file-restricted diffs inline.

Set this option to non-nil to keep the log’s file restriction even if `--follow` is present in the log arguments.

If the revision buffer is not displayed from a log buffer, the file restriction is determined as usual (see [Transient Arguments and Buffer Variables](/docs/magit/Transient-Arguments-and-Buffer-Variables)).
