---
slug: Diff-Options
---

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-diff-refine-hunk**

Whether to show word-granularity differences within diff hunks.

*   `nil` Never show fine differences.
*   `t` Show fine differences for the current diff hunk only.
*   `all` Show fine differences for all displayed diff hunks.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-diff-refine-ignore-whitespace**

Whether to ignore whitespace changes in word-granularity differences.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-diff-adjust-tab-width**

Whether to adjust the width of tabs in diffs.

Determining the correct width can be expensive if it requires opening large and/or many files, so the widths are cached in the variable `magit-diff--tab-width-cache`. Set that to nil to invalidate the cache.

*   `nil` Never adjust tab width. Use ‘tab-width’s value from the Magit buffer itself instead.
*   `t` If the corresponding file-visiting buffer exits, then use `tab-width`’s value from that buffer. Doing this is cheap, so this value is used even if a corresponding cache entry exists.
*   `always` If there is no such buffer, then temporarily visit the file to determine the value.
*   NUMBER Like `always`, but don’t visit files larger than NUMBER bytes.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-diff-paint-whitespace**

Specify where to highlight whitespace errors.

See `magit-diff-highlight-trailing`, `magit-diff-highlight-indentation`. The symbol `t` means in all diffs, `status` means only in the status buffer, and nil means nowhere.

*   `nil` Never highlight whitespace errors.
*   `t` Highlight whitespace errors everywhere.
*   `uncommitted` Only highlight whitespace errors in diffs showing uncommitted changes. For backward compatibility `status` is treated as a synonym.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-diff-paint-whitespace-lines**

Specify in what kind of lines to highlight whitespace errors.

*   `t` Highlight only in added lines.
*   `both` Highlight in added and removed lines.
*   `all` Highlight in added, removed and context lines.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-diff-highlight-trailing**

Whether to highlight whitespace at the end of a line in diffs. Used only when `magit-diff-paint-whitespace` is non-nil.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-diff-highlight-indentation**

This option controls whether to highlight the indentation in case it used the "wrong" indentation style. Indentation is only highlighted if `magit-diff-paint-whitespace` is also non-nil.

The value is an alist of the form `((REGEXP . INDENT)...)`. The path to the current repository is matched against each element in reverse order. Therefore if a REGEXP matches, then earlier elements are not tried.

If the used INDENT is `tabs`, highlight indentation with tabs. If INDENT is an integer, highlight indentation with at least that many spaces. Otherwise, highlight neither.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-diff-hide-trailing-cr-characters**

Whether to hide ^M characters at the end of a line in diffs.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-diff-highlight-hunk-region-functions**

This option specifies the functions used to highlight the hunk-internal region.

`magit-diff-highlight-hunk-region-dim-outside` overlays the outside of the hunk internal selection with a face that causes the added and removed lines to have the same background color as context lines. This function should not be removed from the value of this option.

`magit-diff-highlight-hunk-region-using-overlays` and `magit-diff-highlight-hunk-region-using-underline` emphasize the region by placing delimiting horizontal lines before and after it. Both of these functions have glitches which cannot be fixed due to limitations of Emacs’ display engine. For more information see [https://github.com/magit/magit/issues/2758](https://github.com/magit/magit/issues/2758) ff.

Instead of, or in addition to, using delimiting horizontal lines, to emphasize the boundaries, you may which to emphasize the text itself, using `magit-diff-highlight-hunk-region-using-face`.

In terminal frames it’s not possible to draw lines as the overlay and underline variants normally do, so there they fall back to calling the face function instead.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-diff-unmarked-lines-keep-foreground**

This option controls whether added and removed lines outside the hunk-internal region only lose their distinct background color or also the foreground color. Whether the outside of the region is dimmed at all depends on `magit-diff-highlight-hunk-region-functions`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-diff-extra-stat-arguments**

This option specifies additional arguments to be used alongside `--stat`.

The value is a list of zero or more arguments or a function that takes no argument and returns such a list. These arguments are allowed here: `--stat-width`, `--stat-name-width`, `--stat-graph-width` and `--compact-summary`. Also see the [git-diff(1)](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-diff) manpage.
