---
slug: Bisecting
---

Also see the [git-bisect(1)](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-bisect) manpage.

### `B`     (`magit-bisect`)

This transient prefix command binds the following suffix commands and displays them in a temporary buffer until a suffix is invoked.

When bisecting is not in progress, then the transient features the following suffix commands.

### `B B`     (`magit-bisect-start`)

Start a bisect session.

Bisecting a bug means to find the commit that introduced it. This command starts such a bisect session by asking for a known good commit and a known bad commit. If you’re bisecting a change that isn’t a regression, you can select alternate terms that are conceptually more fitting than "bad" and "good", but the infix arguments to do so are disabled by default.

### `B s`     (`magit-bisect-run`)

Bisect automatically by running commands after each step.

When bisecting in progress, then the transient instead features the following suffix commands.

### `B b`     (`magit-bisect-bad`)

Mark the current commit as bad. Use this after you have asserted that the commit does contain the bug in question.

### `B g`     (`magit-bisect-good`)

Mark the current commit as good. Use this after you have asserted that the commit does not contain the bug in question.

### `B m`     (`magit-bisect-mark`)

Mark the current commit with one of the bisect terms. This command provides an alternative to `magit-bisect-bad` and `magit-bisect-good` and is useful when using terms other than "bad" and "good". This suffix is disabled by default.

### `B k`     (`magit-bisect-skip`)

Skip the current commit. Use this if for some reason the current commit is not a good one to test. This command lets Git choose a different one.

### `B r`     (`magit-bisect-reset`)

After bisecting, cleanup bisection state and return to original `HEAD`.

By default the status buffer shows information about the ongoing bisect session.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-bisect-show-graph**

This option controls whether a graph is displayed for the log of commits that still have to be bisected.
