---
slug: Resetting
---

Also see the [git-reset(1)](/docs/magit/http://git-scm.com/docs/git-reset) manpage.

### `x`     (`magit-reset-quickly`)

Reset the `HEAD` and index to some commit read from the user and defaulting to the commit at point, and possibly also reset the working tree. With a prefix argument reset the working tree otherwise don’t.

### `X m`     (`magit-reset-mixed`)

Reset the `HEAD` and index to some commit read from the user and defaulting to the commit at point. The working tree is kept as-is.

### `X s`     (`magit-reset-soft`)

Reset the `HEAD` to some commit read from the user and defaulting to the commit at point. The index and the working tree are kept as-is.

### `X h`     (`magit-reset-hard`)

Reset the `HEAD`, index, and working tree to some commit read from the user and defaulting to the commit at point.

### `X k`     (`magit-reset-keep`)

Reset the `HEAD`, index, and working tree to some commit read from the user and defaulting to the commit at point. Uncommitted changes are kept as-is.

### `X i`     (`magit-reset-index`)

Reset the index to some commit read from the user and defaulting to the commit at point. Keep the `HEAD` and working tree as-is, so if the commit refers to the `HEAD`, then this effectively unstages all changes.

### `X w`     (`magit-reset-worktree`)

Reset the working tree to some commit read from the user and defaulting to the commit at point. Keep the `HEAD` and index as-is.

### `X f`     (`magit-file-checkout`)

Update file in the working tree and index to the contents from a revision. Both the revision and file are read from the user.
