---
slug: Initiating-a-Commit
---

Also see the [git-commit(1)](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-commit) manpage.

### `c`     (`magit-commit`)

This transient prefix command binds the following suffix commands along with the appropriate infix arguments and displays them in a temporary buffer until a suffix is invoked.

### `c c`     (`magit-commit-create`)

Create a new commit on `HEAD`. With a prefix argument amend to the commit at `HEAD` instead.

### `c a`     (`magit-commit-amend`)

Amend the last commit.

### `c e`     (`magit-commit-extend`)

Amend the last commit, without editing the message. With a prefix argument keep the committer date, otherwise change it. The option `magit-commit-extend-override-date` can be used to inverse the meaning of the prefix argument.

Non-interactively respect the optional OVERRIDE-DATE argument and ignore the option.

### `c w`     (`magit-commit-reword`)

Reword the last commit, ignoring staged changes. With a prefix argument keep the committer date, otherwise change it. The option `magit-commit-reword-override-date` can be used to inverse the meaning of the prefix argument.

Non-interactively respect the optional OVERRIDE-DATE argument and ignore the option.

### `c f`     (`magit-commit-fixup`)

Create a fixup commit.

With a prefix argument the target commit has to be confirmed. Otherwise the commit at point may be used without confirmation depending on the value of option `magit-commit-squash-confirm`.

### `c F`     (`magit-commit-instant-fixup`)

Create a fixup commit and instantly rebase.

### `c s`     (`magit-commit-squash`)

Create a squash commit, without editing the squash message.

With a prefix argument the target commit has to be confirmed. Otherwise the commit at point may be used without confirmation depending on the value of option `magit-commit-squash-confirm`.

### `c S`     (`magit-commit-instant-squash`)

Create a squash commit and instantly rebase.

### `c A`     (`magit-commit-augment`)

Create a squash commit, editing the squash message.

With a prefix argument the target commit has to be confirmed. Otherwise the commit at point may be used without confirmation depending on the value of option `magit-commit-squash-confirm`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-commit-ask-to-stage**

Whether to ask to stage all unstaged changes when committing and nothing is staged.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-commit-show-diff**

Whether the relevant diff is automatically shown when committing.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-commit-extend-override-date**

Whether using `magit-commit-extend` changes the committer date.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-commit-reword-override-date**

Whether using `magit-commit-reword` changes the committer date.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-commit-squash-confirm**

Whether the commit targeted by squash and fixup has to be confirmed. When non-nil then the commit at point (if any) is used as default choice. Otherwise it has to be confirmed. This option only affects `magit-commit-squash` and `magit-commit-fixup`. The "instant" variants always require confirmation because making an error while using those is harder to recover from.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-post-commit-hook**

Hook run after creating a commit without the user editing a message.

This hook is run by `magit-refresh` if `this-command` is a member of `magit-post-stage-hook-commands`. This only includes commands named `magit-commit-*` that do **not** require that the user edits the commit message in a buffer.

Also see `git-commit-post-finish-hook`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-commit-diff-inhibit-same-window**

Whether to inhibit use of same window when showing diff while committing.

When writing a commit, then a diff of the changes to be committed is automatically shown. The idea is that the diff is shown in a different window of the same frame and for most users that just works. In other words most users can completely ignore this option because its value doesn’t make a difference for them.

However for users who configured Emacs to never create a new window even when the package explicitly tries to do so, then displaying two new buffers necessarily means that the first is immediately replaced by the second. In our case the message buffer is immediately replaced by the diff buffer, which is of course highly undesirable.

A workaround is to suppress this user configuration in this particular case. Users have to explicitly opt-in by toggling this option. We cannot enable the workaround unconditionally because that again causes issues for other users: if the frame is too tiny or the relevant settings too aggressive, then the diff buffer would end up being displayed in a new frame.

Also see [https://github.com/magit/magit/issues/4132](https://github.com/magit/magit/issues/4132).
