---
slug: Branch-Git-Variables
---

These variables can be set from the transient prefix command `magit-branch-configure`. By default they can also be set from `magit-branch`. See [Branch Commands](Branch-Commands).

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **branch.NAME.merge**

Together with `branch.NAME.remote` this variable defines the upstream branch of the local branch named NAME. The value of this variable is the full reference of the upstream *branch*.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **branch.NAME.remote**

Together with `branch.NAME.merge` this variable defines the upstream branch of the local branch named NAME. The value of this variable is the name of the upstream *remote*.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **branch.NAME.rebase**

This variable controls whether pulling into the branch named NAME is done by rebasing or by merging the fetched branch.

*   When `true` then pulling is done by rebasing.
*   When `false` then pulling is done by merging.
*   When undefined then the value of `pull.rebase` is used. The default of that variable is `false`.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **branch.NAME.pushRemote**

This variable specifies the remote that the branch named NAME is usually pushed to. The value has to be the name of an existing remote.

It is not possible to specify the name of *branch* to push the local branch to. The name of the remote branch is always the same as the name of the local branch.

If this variable is undefined but `remote.pushDefault` is defined, then the value of the latter is used. By default `remote.pushDefault` is undefined.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **branch.NAME.description**

This variable can be used to describe the branch named NAME. That description is used e.g. when turning the branch into a series of patches.

The following variables specify defaults which are used if the above branch-specific variables are not set.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **pull.rebase**

This variable specifies whether pulling is done by rebasing or by merging. It can be overwritten using `branch.NAME.rebase`.

*   When `true` then pulling is done by rebasing.
*   When `false` (the default) then pulling is done by merging.

Since it is never a good idea to merge the upstream branch into a feature or hotfix branch and most branches are such branches, you should consider setting this to `true`, and `branch.master.rebase` to `false`.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **remote.pushDefault**

This variable specifies what remote the local branches are usually pushed to. This can be overwritten per branch using `branch.NAME.pushRemote`.

The following variables are used during the creation of a branch and control whether the various branch-specific variables are automatically set at this time.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **branch.autoSetupMerge**

This variable specifies under what circumstances creating a branch NAME should result in the variables `branch.NAME.merge` and `branch.NAME.remote` being set according to the starting point used to create the branch. If the starting point isn’t a branch, then these variables are never set.

*   When `always` then the variables are set regardless of whether the starting point is a local or a remote branch.
*   When `true` (the default) then the variables are set when the starting point is a remote branch, but not when it is a local branch.
*   When `false` then the variables are never set.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **branch.autoSetupRebase**

This variable specifies whether creating a branch NAME should result in the variable `branch.NAME.rebase` being set to `true`.

*   When `always` then the variable is set regardless of whether the starting point is a local or a remote branch.
*   When `local` then the variable are set when the starting point is a local branch, but not when it is a remote branch.
*   When `remote` then the variable are set when the starting point is a remote branch, but not when it is a local branch.
*   When `never` (the default) then the variable is never set.

Note that the respective commands always change the repository-local values. If you want to change the global value, which is used when the local value is undefined, then you have to do so on the command line, e.g.:

```lisp
git config --global remote.autoSetupMerge always
```

For more information about these variables you should also see

the [git-config(1)](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-config) manpage.

Also see the [git-branch(1)](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-branch) manpage. , the [git-checkout(1)](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-checkout) manpage. and [Pushing](Pushing).

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-prefer-remote-upstream**

This option controls whether commands that read a branch from the user and then set it as the upstream branch, offer a local or a remote branch as default completion candidate, when they have the choice.

This affects all commands that use `magit-read-upstream-branch` or `magit-read-starting-point`, which includes all commands that change the upstream and many which create new branches.
