---
slug: Notes
---

Also see the [git-notes(1)](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-notes) manpage.

### `T`     (`magit-notes`)

This transient prefix command binds the following suffix commands along with the appropriate infix arguments and displays them in a temporary buffer until a suffix is invoked.

### `T T`     (`magit-notes-edit`)

Edit the note attached to a commit, defaulting to the commit at point.

By default use the value of Git variable `core.notesRef` or "refs/notes/commits" if that is undefined.

### `T r`     (`magit-notes-remove`)

Remove the note attached to a commit, defaulting to the commit at point.

By default use the value of Git variable `core.notesRef` or "refs/notes/commits" if that is undefined.

### `T p`     (`magit-notes-prune`)

Remove notes about unreachable commits.

It is possible to merge one note ref into another. That may result in conflicts which have to resolved in the temporary worktree ".git/NOTES*\_MERGE**\_WORKTREE*".

### `T m`     (`magit-notes-merge`)

Merge the notes of a ref read from the user into the current notes ref. The current notes ref is the value of Git variable `core.notesRef` or "refs/notes/commits" if that is undefined.

When a notes merge is in progress then the transient features the following suffix commands, instead of those listed above.

### `T c`     (`magit-notes-merge-commit`)

Commit the current notes ref merge, after manually resolving conflicts.

### `T a`     (`magit-notes-merge-abort`)

Abort the current notes ref merge.

The following variables control what notes reference `magit-notes-*`, `git notes` and `git show` act on and display. Both the local and global values are displayed and can be modified.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **core.notesRef**

This variable specifies the notes ref that is displayed by default and which commands act on by default.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **notes.displayRef**

This variable specifies additional notes ref to be displayed in addition to the ref specified by `core.notesRef`. It can have multiple values and may end with `*` to display all refs in the `refs/notes/` namespace (or `**` if some names contain slashes).
