---
slug: Subtree
---

Also see the [git-subtree(1)](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-subtree) manpage.

### `O`     (`magit-subtree`)

This transient prefix command binds the two sub-transients; one for importing a subtree and one for exporting a subtree.

### `O i`     (`magit-subtree-import`)

This transient prefix command binds the following suffix commands along with the appropriate infix arguments and displays them in a temporary buffer until a suffix is invoked.

The suffixes of this command import subtrees.

If the `--prefix` argument is set, then the suffix commands use that prefix without prompting the user. If it is unset, then they read the prefix in the minibuffer.

### `O i a`     (`magit-subtree-add`)

This command adds COMMIT from REPOSITORY as a new subtree at PREFIX.

### `O i c`     (`magit-subtree-add-commit`)

This command add COMMIT as a new subtree at PREFIX.

### `O i m`     (`magit-subtree-merge`)

This command merges COMMIT into the PREFIX subtree.

### `O i f`     (`magit-subtree-pull`)

This command pulls COMMIT from REPOSITORY into the PREFIX subtree.

### `O e`     (`magit-subtree-export`)

This transient prefix command binds the following suffix commands along with the appropriate infix arguments and displays them in a temporary buffer until a suffix is invoked.

The suffixes of this command export subtrees.

If the `--prefix` argument is set, then the suffix commands use that prefix without prompting the user. If it is unset, then they read the prefix in the minibuffer.

### `O e p`     (`magit-subtree-push`)

This command extract the history of the subtree PREFIX and pushes it to REF on REPOSITORY.

### `O e s`     (`magit-subtree-split`)

This command extracts the history of the subtree PREFIX.
