---
slug: Commands-for-Buffers-Visiting-Files
---

Magit defines a few global key bindings unless the user sets `magit-define-global-key-bindings` to `nil`. This includes binding `C-c M-g` to `magit-file-dispatch`. `C-c g` would be a much better binding but the `C-c <letter>` namespace is reserved for users, meaning that packages are not allowed to use it. If you want to use `C-c g`, then you have to add that binding yourself. Also see [Default Bindings](/docs/magit/Default-Bindings) and [(elisp)Key Binding Conventions](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/elisp.html#Key-Binding-Conventions).

If you want a better binding, you have to add it yourself:

```lisp
(global-set-key (kbd "C-c g") 'magit-file-dispatch)
```

The key bindings shown below assume that you have not improved the binding for `magit-file-dispatch`.

### `C-c M-g`     (`magit-file-dispatch`)

This transient prefix command binds the following suffix commands and displays them in a temporary buffer until a suffix is invoked.

When invoked in a buffer that does not visit a file, then it falls back to regular `magit-dispatch`.

### `C-c M-g s`     (`magit-stage-file`)

Stage all changes to the file being visited in the current buffer.

### `C-c M-g u`     (`magit-unstage-file`)

Unstage all changes to the file being visited in the current buffer.

### `C-c M-g c`     (`magit-commit`)

This transient prefix command binds the following suffix commands along with the appropriate infix arguments and displays them in a temporary buffer until a suffix is invoked. See [Initiating a Commit](/docs/magit/Initiating-a-Commit).

### `C-c M-g D`     (`magit-diff`)

This transient prefix command binds several diff suffix commands and infix arguments and displays them in a temporary buffer until a suffix is invoked. See [Diffing](/docs/magit/Diffing).

This is the same command that `d` is bound to in Magit buffers. If this command is invoked from a file-visiting buffer, then the initial value of the option (`--`) that limits the diff to certain file(s) is set to the visited file.

### `C-c M-g d`     (`magit-diff-buffer-file`)

This command shows the diff for the file of blob that the current buffer visits.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-diff-buffer-file-locked**

This option controls whether `magit-diff-buffer-file` uses a dedicated buffer. See [Modes and Buffers](/docs/magit/Modes-and-Buffers).

### `C-c M-g L`     (`magit-log`)

This transient prefix command binds several log suffix commands and infix arguments and displays them in a temporary buffer until a suffix is invoked. See [Logging](/docs/magit/Logging).

This is the same command that `l` is bound to in Magit buffers. If this command is invoked from a file-visiting buffer, then the initial value of the option (`--`) that limits the log to certain file(s) is set to the visited file.

### `C-c M-g l`     (`magit-log-buffer-file`)

This command shows the log for the file of blob that the current buffer visits. Renames are followed when a prefix argument is used or when `--follow` is an active log argument. When the region is active, the log is restricted to the selected line range.

### `C-c M-g t`     (`magit-log-trace-definition`)

This command shows the log for the definition at point.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **magit-log-buffer-file-locked**

This option controls whether `magit-log-buffer-file` uses a dedicated buffer. See [Modes and Buffers](/docs/magit/Modes-and-Buffers).

### `C-c M-g B`     (`magit-blame`)

This transient prefix command binds all blaming suffix commands along with the appropriate infix arguments and displays them in a temporary buffer until a suffix is invoked.

For more information about this and the following commands also see [Blaming](/docs/magit/Blaming).

In addition to the `magit-blame` sub-transient, the dispatch transient also binds several blaming suffix commands directly. See [Blaming](/docs/magit/Blaming) for information about those commands and bindings.

### `C-c M-g e`     (`magit-edit-line-commit`)

This command makes the commit editable that added the current line.

With a prefix argument it makes the commit editable that removes the line, if any. The commit is determined using `git blame` and made editable using `git rebase --interactive` if it is reachable from `HEAD`, or by checking out the commit (or a branch that points at it) otherwise.

### `C-c M-g p`     (`magit-blob-previous`)

Visit the previous blob which modified the current file.

There are a few additional commands that operate on a single file but are not enabled in the file transient command by default:

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **magit-file-rename**

This command renames a file read from the user.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **magit-file-delete**

This command deletes a file read from the user.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **magit-file-untrack**

This command untracks a file read from the user.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **magit-file-checkout**

This command updates a file in the working tree and index to the contents from a revision. Both the revision and file are read from the user.

To enable them invoke the transient (`C-c M-g`), enter "edit mode" (`C-x l`), set the "transient level" (`C-x l` again), enter `5`, and leave edit mode (`C-g`). Also see [(transient)Enabling and Disabling Suffixes](https://magit.vc/manual/transient.html#Enabling-and-Disabling-Suffixes).
