---
slug: Safety
---

This section discusses various variables that you might want to change (or **not** change) for safety reasons.

Git keeps **committed** changes around long enough for users to recover changes they have accidentally been deleted. It does not do the same for **uncommitted** changes in the working tree and not even the index (the staging area). Because Magit makes it so easy to modify uncommitted changes, it also makes it easy to shoot yourself in the foot in the process. For that reason Magit provides three global modes that save **tracked** files to work-in-progress references after or before certain actions. See [Wip Modes](Wip-Modes).

These modes are not enabled by default because of performance concerns. Instead a lot of potentially destructive commands require confirmation every time they are used. In many cases this can be disabled by adding a symbol to `magit-no-confirm` (see [Completion and Confirmation](Completion-and-Confirmation)). If you enable the various wip modes then you should add `safe-with-wip` to this list.

Similarly it isn’t necessary to require confirmation before moving a file to the system trash - if you trashed a file by mistake then you can recover it from there. Option `magit-delete-by-moving-to-trash` controls whether the system trash is used, which is the case by default. Nevertheless, `trash` isn’t a member of `magit-no-confirm` - you might want to change that.

By default buffers visiting files are automatically reverted when the visited file changes on disk. This isn’t as risky as it might seem, but to make an informed decision you should see [Risk of Reverting Automatically](Risk-of-Reverting-Automatically).
