---
slug: Summary
---

AUCTeX is a comprehensive customizable integrated environment for writing input files for TeX, LaTeX, ConTeXt, Texinfo, and docTeX using Emacs.

It supports you in the insertion of macros, environments, and sectioning commands by providing completion alternatives and prompting for parameters. It automatically indents your text as you type it and lets you format a whole file at once. The outlining and folding facilities provide you with a focused and clean view of your text.

AUCTeX lets you process your source files by running TeX and related tools (such as output filters, post processors for generating indices and bibliographies, and viewers) from inside Emacs. AUCTeX lets you browse through the errors TeX reported, while it moves the cursor directly to the reported error, and displays some documentation for that particular error. This will even work when the document is spread over several files.

One component of AUCTeX that LaTeX users will find attractive is preview-latex, a combination of folding and in-source previewing that provides true “What You See Is What You Get" experience in your sourcebuffer, while letting you retain full control.

More detailed information about the features and usage of AUCTeX can be found in the remainder of this manual.

AUCTeX is written entirely in Emacs Lisp, and hence you can easily add new features for your own needs. It is a GNU project and distributed under the ‘GNU General Public License Version 3’.

The most recent version is always available at [https://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/auctex/](https://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/auctex/).

WWW users may want to check out the AUCTeX page at [https://www.gnu.org/software/auctex/](https://www.gnu.org/software/auctex/).

For comprehensive information about how to install AUCTeX See [Installation](/docs/auctex/Installation), or [Installation under MS Windows](/docs/auctex/Installation-under-MS-Windows), respectively.

If you are considering upgrading AUCTeX, the recent changes are described in [Changes](/docs/auctex/Changes).

If you want to discuss AUCTeX with other users or its developers, there are several mailing lists you can use.

Send a mail with the subject “subscribe" to [auctex-request@gnu.org](/docs/auctex/mailto:auctex-request@gnu.org) in order to join the general discussion list for AUCTeX. Articles should be sent to [auctex@gnu.org](/docs/auctex/mailto:auctex@gnu.org). In a similar way, you can subscribe to the [info-auctex@gnu.org](/docs/auctex/mailto:info-auctex@gnu.org) list for just getting important announcements about AUCTeX. The list [bug-auctex@gnu.org](/docs/auctex/mailto:bug-auctex@gnu.org) is for bug reports which you should usually file with the `M-x TeX-submit-bug-report <RET>` command. If you want to address the developers of AUCTeX themselves with technical issues, they can be found on the discussion list [auctex-devel@gnu.org](/docs/auctex/mailto:auctex-devel@gnu.org).
