---
slug: Advice-for-non_002dprivileged-users
---

Often people without system administration privileges want to install software for their private use. In that case you need to pass more options to the `configure` script.

The main expedient is using the ‘`--prefix`’ option to the ‘`configure`’ script, and let it point to the personal home directory. In that way, resulting binaries will be installed under the ‘`bin`’ subdirectory of your home directory, manual pages under ‘`man`’ and so on. It is reasonably easy to maintain a bunch of personal software, since the prefix argument is supported by most ‘`configure`’ scripts.

You often need to specify ‘`--with-lispdir`’ option as well. If you haven’t installed Emacs under your home directory and use Emacs installed in system directories, the ‘`configure`’ script might not be able to figure out suitable place to install lisp files under your home directory. In that case, the ‘`configure`’ script would silently choose, by default, the ‘`site-lisp`’ directory within ‘`load-path`’ for the place, where administration privileges are usually required to put relevant files. Thus you will have to tell the ‘`configure`’ script explicitly where to put those files by, e.g., ‘`--with-lispdir=‘/home/myself/share/emacs/site-lisp’`’.

You’ll have to add something like ‘`/home/myself/share/emacs/site-lisp`’ to your `load-path` variable, if it isn’t there already.

In addition, you will have to tell ‘`configure`’ script where to install TeX-related files such as ‘`preview.sty`’ if preview-latex isn’t disabled. It is enough to specify ‘`--with-texmf-dir=‘$HOME/texmf’`’ for most typical cases, but you have to create the direcotry ‘`$HOME/texmf`’ in advance if it doesn’t exist. If this prescription doesn’t work, consider using one or more of the options ‘`--with-texmf-dir=/dir`’, ‘`--without-texmf-dir`’, ‘`--with-tex-dir=/dir`’ and ‘`--with-doc-dir=/dir`’. See [Configure](Configure) for detail of these options.

Now here is another thing to ponder: perhaps you want to make it easy for other users to share parts of your personal Emacs configuration. In general, you can do this by writing ‘`~myself/`’ anywhere where you specify paths to something installed in your personal subdirectories, not merely ‘`~/`’, since the latter, when used by other users, will point to non-existent files.

For yourself, it will do to manipulate environment variables in your ‘`.profile`’ resp. ‘`.login`’ files. But if people will be copying just Elisp files, their copies will not work. While it would in general be preferable if the added components where available from a shell level, too (like when you call the standalone info reader, or try using ‘`preview.sty`’ for functionality besides of Emacs previews), it will be a big help already if things work from inside of Emacs.

Here is how to do the various parts:

### Making the Elisp available

In GNU Emacs, it should be sufficient if people just do

```lisp
(load "~myself/share/emacs/site-lisp/auctex.el" nil t t) (load "~myself/share/emacs/site-lisp/preview-latex.el" nil t t) 
```

where the path points to your personal installation. The rest of the package should be found relative from there without further ado.

### Making the Info files available

For making the info files accessible from within Elisp, something like the following might be convenient to add into your or other people’s startup files:

```lisp
(eval-after-load 'info    '(add-to-list 'Info-directory-list "~myself/info")) 
```

### Making the LaTeX style available

If you want others to be able to share your installation, you should configure it using ‘`--without-texmf-dir`’, in which case things should work as well for them as for you.
