---
slug: Font-Specifiers
---

Perhaps the most used keyboard commands of AUCTeX are the short-cuts available for easy insertion of font changing macros.

If you give an argument (that is, type `C-u`) to the font command, the innermost font will be replaced, i.e. the font in the TeX group around point will be changed. The following table shows the available commands, with `∗` indicating the position where the text will be inserted.

### `C-c C-f C-b`

Insert **bold face** ‘`\textbf{∗}`’ text.

### `C-c C-f C-m`

Insert medium face ‘`\textmd{∗}`’ text.

### `C-c C-f C-i`

Insert *italics* ‘`\textit{∗}`’ text.

### `C-c C-f C-e`

Insert *emphasized* ‘`\emph{∗}`’ text.

### `C-c C-f C-s`

Insert *slanted* ‘`\textsl{∗}`’ text.

### `C-c C-f C-r`

Insert roman ‘`\textrm{∗}`’ text.

### `C-c C-f C-f`

Insert sans serif ‘`\textsf{∗}`’ text.

### `C-c C-f C-t`

Insert `typewriter` ‘`\texttt{∗}`’ text.

### `C-c C-f C-c`

Insert SMALL CAPS ‘`\textsc{∗}`’ text.

### `C-c C-f C-l`

Insert upper lower case ‘`\textulc{∗}`’ text.

### `C-c C-f C-w`

Insert SWASH ‘`\textsw{∗}`’ text.

### `C-c C-f C-n`

Insert normal ‘`\textnormal{∗}`’ text.

### `C-c C-f C-d`

Delete the innermost font specification containing point.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **TeX-font*** replace what*

(`C-c C-f`) Insert template for font change command.

If `replace` is not nil, replace current font. `what` determines the font to use, as specified by `TeX-font-list`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-font-list**

List of fonts used by `TeX-font`.

Each entry is a list with three elements. The first element is the key to activate the font. The second element is the string to insert before point, and the third element is the string to insert after point. An optional fourth element means always replace if not nil.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **LaTeX-font-list**

List of fonts used by `TeX-font` in LaTeX mode. It has the same structure as `TeX-font-list`.
