---
slug: Environments
---

A large apparatus is available that supports insertions of environments, that is ‘`\begin{}`’ — ‘`\end{}`’ pairs.

AUCTeX is aware of most of the actual environments available in a specific document. This is achieved by examining your ‘`\documentclass`’ command, and consulting a precompiled list of environments available in a large number of styles.

Most of these are described further in the following sections, and you may easily specify more. See [Customizing Environments](Customizing-Environments).

You insert an environment with `C-c C-e`, and select an environment type. Depending on the environment, AUCTeX may ask more questions about the optional parts of the selected environment type. With `C-u C-c C-e` you will change the current environment.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **LaTeX-environment*** `arg`*

(`C-c C-e`) AUCTeX will prompt you for an environment to insert. At this prompt, you may press ﹤TAB﹥ or ﹤SPC﹥ to complete a partially written name, and/or to get a list of available environments. After selection of a specific environment AUCTeX may prompt you for further specifications.

If the optional argument `arg` is not-nil (i.e. you have given a prefix argument), the current environment is modified and no new environment is inserted.

AUCTeX helps you adding labels to environments which use them, such as ‘`equation`’, ‘`figure`’, ‘`table`’, etc… When you insert one of the supported environments with `C-c C-e`, you will be automatically prompted for a label. You can select the prefix to be used for such environments with the `LaTeX-label-alist` variable.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **LaTeX-label-alist**

List the prefixes to be used for the label of each supported environment.

This is an alist whose car is the environment name, and the cdr either the prefix or a symbol referring to one.

If the name is not found, or if the cdr is nil, no label is automatically inserted for that environment.

If you want to automatically insert a label for a environment but with an empty prefix, use the empty string `""` as the cdr of the corresponding entry.

As a default selection, AUCTeX will suggest the environment last inserted or, as the first choice the value of the variable `LaTeX-default-environment`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **LaTeX-default-environment**

Default environment to insert when invoking ‘`LaTeX-environment`’ first time. When the current environment is ‘`document`’, it is overriden by `LaTeX-default-document-environment`.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **LaTeX-default-document-environment**

Default environment when invoking ‘`LaTeX-environment`’ and the current environment is ‘`document`’. It is intended to be used in LaTeX class style files. For example, in ‘`beamer.el`’ it is set to `frame`, in ‘`letter.el`’ to `letter`, and in ‘`slides.el`’ to `slide`.

If the document is empty, or the cursor is placed at the top of the document, AUCTeX will default to insert a ‘`document`’ environment prompting also for the insertion of ‘`\documentclass`’ and ‘`\usepackage`’ macros. You will be prompted for a new package until you enter nothing. If you do not want to insert any ‘`\usepackage`’ at all, just press ﹤RET﹥ at the first ‘`Packages`’ prompt.

AUCTeX distinguishes normal and expert environments. By default, it will offer completion only for normal environments. This behavior is controlled by the user option `TeX-complete-expert-commands`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-complete-expert-commands**

Complete macros and environments marked as expert commands.

Possible values are nil, t, or a list of style names.

### nil

Don’t complete expert commands (default).

### t

Always complete expert commands.

### (STYLES …)

Only complete expert commands of STYLES.

|                                                        |    |                           |
| :----------------------------------------------------- | -- | :------------------------ |
| [• Equations](Equations)                               |    |                           |
| [• Floats](Floats)                                     |    |                           |
| [• Itemize-like](Itemize_002dlike)                     |    | Itemize-like Environments |
| [• Tabular-like](Tabular_002dlike)                     |    | Tabular-like Environments |
| [• Customizing Environments](Customizing-Environments) |    |                           |

You can close the current environment with `C-c ]`, but we suggest that you use `C-c C-e` to insert complete environments instead.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **LaTeX-close-environment**

(`C-c ]`) Insert an ‘`\end`’ that matches the current environment.

AUCTeX offers keyboard shortcuts for moving point to the beginning and to the end of the current environment.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **LaTeX-find-matching-begin**

(`C-M-a`) Move point to the ‘`\begin`’ of the current environment.

If this command is called inside a comment and `LaTeX-syntactic-comments` is enabled, try to find the environment in commented regions with the same comment prefix.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **LaTeX-find-matching-end**

(`C-M-e`) Move point to the ‘`\end`’ of the current environment.

If this command is called inside a comment and `LaTeX-syntactic-comments` is enabled, try to find the environment in commented regions with the same comment prefix.
