---
slug: Floats
---

Figures and tables (i.e., floats) may also be inserted using AUCTeX. After choosing either ‘figure’ or ‘table’ in the environment list described above, you will be prompted for a number of additional things.

### `float position`

This is the optional argument of float environments that controls how they are placed in the final document. In LaTeX this is a sequence of the letters ‘`htbp`’ as described in the LaTeX manual. The value will default to the value of `LaTeX-float`.

### `caption`

This is the caption of the float. The default is to insert the caption at the bottom of the float. You can specify floats where the caption should be placed at the top with `LaTeX-top-caption-list`.

### `short caption`

If the specified caption is greater than a specific length, then a short caption is prompted for and it is inserted as an optional argument to the ‘`\caption`’ macro. The length that a caption needs to be before prompting for a short version is controlled by `LaTeX-short-caption-prompt-length`.

### `label`

The label of this float. The label will have a default prefix, which is controlled by the variables `LaTeX-figure-label` and `LaTeX-table-label`.

Moreover, you will be asked if you want the contents of the float environment to be horizontally centered. Upon a positive answer a ‘`\centering`’ macro will be inserted at the beginning of the float environment.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **LaTeX-float**

Default placement for floats.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **LaTeX-figure-label**

Prefix to use for figure labels.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **LaTeX-table-label**

Prefix to use for table labels.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **LaTeX-top-caption-list**

List of float environments with top caption.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **LaTeX-short-caption-prompt-length**

Number of chars a caption should be before prompting for a short caption.
