---
slug: Tabular_002dlike
---

When inserting Tabular-like environments, that is, ‘tabular’ ‘array’ etc., you will be prompted for a template for that environment. Related variables:

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **LaTeX-default-format**

Default format string for array and tabular environments.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **LaTeX-default-width**

Default width for minipage and tabular\* environments.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **LaTeX-default-position**

Default position string for array and tabular environments. If nil, act like the empty string is given, but don’t prompt for a position.

AUCTeX calculates the number of columns from the format string and inserts the suitable number of ampersands.

You can use `C-c <LFD>` (`LaTeX-insert-item`) to terminate rows in these environments. It supplies line break macro ‘`\\`’ and inserts the suitable number of ampersands on the next line. AUCTeX also supports the ‘`*{num}{cols}`’ notation (which may contain another ‘`*`’-expression) in the format string when calculating the number of ampersands. Please note that ‘`num`’ and ‘`cols`’ must be enclosed in braces; expressions like ‘`*2l`’ are not recognized correctly by the algorithm.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **LaTeX-insert-item**

(`C-c <LFD>`) Close the current row with ‘`\\`’, move to the next line and insert an appropriate number of ampersands for the current environment.

Similar supports are provided for various amsmath environments such as ‘`align`’, ‘`gather`’, ‘`alignat`’, ‘`matrix`’ etc. Try typing `C-c <LFD>` in these environments. It recognizes the current environment and does the appropriate job depending on the context.
