---
slug: Mathematics
---

TeX is written by a mathematician, and has always contained good support for formatting mathematical text. AUCTeX supports this tradition, by offering a special minor mode for entering text with many mathematical symbols. You can enter this mode by typing `C-c ~`.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **LaTeX-math-mode**

(`C-c ~`) Toggle LaTeX Math mode. This is a minor mode rebinding the key `LaTeX-math-abbrev-prefix` to allow easy typing of mathematical symbols. `` ` `` will read a character from the keyboard, and insert the symbol as specified in `LaTeX-math-default` and `LaTeX-math-list`. If given a prefix argument, the symbol will be surrounded by dollar signs.

You can use another prefix key (instead of `` ` ``) by setting the variable `LaTeX-math-abbrev-prefix`.

To enable LaTeX Math mode by default, add the following in your ‘`.emacs`’ file:

```lisp
(add-hook 'LaTeX-mode-hook 'LaTeX-math-mode) 
```

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **LaTeX-math-abbrev-prefix**

A string containing the prefix of `LaTeX-math-mode` commands; This value defaults to `` ` ``.

The string has to be a key or key sequence in a format understood by the `kbd` macro. This corresponds to the syntax usually used in the manuals for Emacs Emacs Lisp.

The variable `LaTeX-math-list` allows you to add your own mappings.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **LaTeX-math-list**

A list containing user-defined keys and commands to be used in LaTeX Math mode. Each entry should be a list of two to four elements.

First, the key to be used after `LaTeX-math-abbrev-prefix` for macro insertion. If it is nil, the symbol has no associated keystroke (it is available in the menu, though).

Second, a string representing the name of the macro (without a leading backslash.)

Third, a string representing the name of a submenu the command should be added to. Use a list of strings in case of nested menus.

Fourth, the position of a Unicode character to be displayed in the menu alongside the macro name. This is an integer value.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **LaTeX-math-menu-unicode**

Whether the LaTeX menu should try using Unicode for effect. Your Emacs built must be able to display include Unicode characters in menus for this feature.

AUCTeX’s reference card ‘`tex-ref.tex`’ includes a list of all math mode commands.

AUCTeX can help you write subscripts and superscripts in math constructs by automatically inserting a pair of braces after typing ﹤\_﹥ or ﹤^﹥ respectively and putting point between the braces. In order to enable this feature, set the variable `TeX-electric-sub-and-superscript` to a non-nil value.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-electric-sub-and-superscript**

If non-nil, insert braces after typing ﹤^﹥ and ﹤\_﹥ in math mode.

You can automatically turn off input methods, used to input non-ascii characters, when you begin to enter math constructs.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-math-input-method-off-regexp**

Input method matching this regular expression is turned off when `$` is typed to begin math mode or a math environment is inserted by `C-c C-e` (`LaTeX-environment`).
