---
slug: Completion
---

Emacs lisp programmers probably know the `lisp-complete-symbol` command which was bound to `M-<TAB>` until completion-at-point became the new standard completion facility (see below). Users of the wonderful ispell mode know and love the `ispell-complete-word` command from that package. Similarly, AUCTeX has a `TeX-complete-symbol` command, by default bound to `M-<TAB>` which is equivalent to `M-C-i`. Using `TeX-complete-symbol` makes it easier to type and remember the names of long LaTeX macros.

In order to use `TeX-complete-symbol`, you should write a backslash and the start of the macro. Typing `M-<TAB>` will now complete as much of the macro, as it unambiguously can. For example, if you type ‘‘`\renewc`’’ and then `M-<TAB>`, it will expand to ‘‘`\renewcommand`’’. But there’s more: if point is just after ‘`\begin{`’, then `TeX-complete-symbol` will complete LaTeX environments, etc. This is controlled by `TeX-complete-list`.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **TeX-complete-symbol**

(`M-<TAB>`) Complete TeX symbol before point.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **TeX-complete-list**

List of ways to complete the preceding text.

Each entry is a list with the following elements:

1.  Regexp matching the preceding text or a predicate of arity 0 which returns non-nil and sets ‘match-data’ appropriately if it is applicable.
2.  A number indicating the subgroup in the regexp containing the text.
3.  A function returning an alist of possible completions.
4.  Text to append after a succesful completion.

Or alternatively:

1.  Regexp matching the preceding text.
2.  Function to do the actual completion.

More recent Emacs versions have a new completion mechanism. Modes may define and register custom completion-at-point functions and when the user invokes `completion-at-point` (usually bound to `M-<TAB>`), all such registered functions are consulted for checking for possible completions. Modern completion UIs like *company-mode* support this completion-at-point facility.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **TeX--completion-at-point**

AUCTeX’s completion-at-point function which is automatically added to `completion-at-point-functions` in TeX and LaTeX buffers.

It offers the same completion candidates as would `TeX-complete-symbol` (and is also controlled by `TeX-complete-list`) except that it doesn’t fall back on `ispell-complete-word` which would be awkward with completion UIs like *company-mode*.

A more direct way to insert a macro is with `TeX-insert-macro`, bound to `C-c C-m` which is equivalent to `C-c <RET>`. It has the advantage over completion that it knows about the argument of most standard LaTeX macros, and will prompt for them. It also knows about the type of the arguments, so it will for example give completion for the argument to ‘`\include`’. Some examples are listed below.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **TeX-insert-macro**

(`C-c C-m` or `C-c <RET>`) Prompt (with completion) for the name of a TeX macro, and if AUCTeX knows the macro, prompt for each argument.

As a default selection, AUCTeX will suggest the macro last inserted or, as the first choice the value of the variable `TeX-default-macro`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-insert-macro-default-style**

Specifies whether `TeX-insert-macro` will ask for all optional arguments.

If set to the symbol `show-optional-args`, `TeX-insert-macro` asks for optional arguments of TeX marcos, unless the previous optional argument has been rejected. If set to `show-all-optional-args`, `TeX-insert-macro` asks for all optional arguments. `mandatory-args-only`, `TeX-insert-macro` asks only for mandatory arguments. When `TeX-insert-macro` is called with prefix argument (`C-u`), it’s the other way round.

Note that for some macros, there are special mechanisms, e.g. `LaTeX-includegraphics-options-alist` and `TeX-arg-cite-note-p`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-default-macro**

Default macro to insert when invoking `TeX-insert-macro` first time.

A faster alternative is to enable the option `TeX-electric-escape`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-electric-escape**

If this is non-nil, typing the TeX escape character `\` will invoke the command `TeX-electric-macro`.

In Texinfo mode, the command is invoked by `@` instead.

The difference between `TeX-insert-macro` and `TeX-electric-macro` is that space will complete and exit from the minibuffer in `TeX-electric-macro`. Use ﹤TAB﹥ if you merely want to complete.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **TeX-electric-macro**

Prompt (with completion) for the name of a TeX macro, and if AUCTeX knows the macro, prompt for each argument. Space will complete and exit.

By default AUCTeX will put an empty set braces ‘`{}`’ after a macro with no arguments to stop it from eating the next whitespace. This is suppressed inside math mode and can be disabled totally by setting `TeX-insert-braces` to nil.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-insert-braces**

If non-nil, append a empty pair of braces after inserting a macro with no arguments.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-insert-braces-alist**

Control the insertion of a pair of braces after a macro on a per macro basis.

This variable is an alist. Each element is a cons cell, whose car is the macro name, and the cdr is non-nil or nil, depending on whether a pair of braces should be, respectively, appended or not to the macro.

If a macro has an element in this variable, `TeX-parse-macro` will use its value to decide what to do, whatever the value of the variable `TeX-insert-braces`.

Completions work because AUCTeX can analyze TeX files, and store symbols in Emacs Lisp files for later retrieval. See [Automatic](Automatic), for more information.

AUCTeX distinguishes normal and expert macros. By default, it will offer completion only for normal commands. This behavior can be controlled using the user option `TeX-complete-expert-commands`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-complete-expert-commands**

Complete macros and environments marked as expert commands.

Possible values are nil, t, or a list of style names.

### nil

Don’t complete expert commands (default).

### t

Always complete expert commands.

### (STYLES …)

Only complete expert commands of STYLES.

AUCTeX will also make completion for many macro arguments, for example existing labels when you enter a ‘`\ref`’ macro with `TeX-insert-macro` or `TeX-electric-macro`, and BibTeX entries when you enter a ‘`\cite`’ macro. For this kind of completion to work, parsing must be enabled as described in see [Parsing Files](Parsing-Files). For ‘`\cite`’ you must also make sure that the BibTeX files have been saved at least once after you enabled automatic parsing on save, and that the basename of the BibTeX file does not conflict with the basename of one of TeX files.
