---
slug: Fontification-of-math
---

In LaTeX mathematics can be indicated by a variety of different methods: toggles (like dollar signs), macros and environments. Math constructs known by font-latex are displayed with the face `font-latex-math-face`. Support for dollar signs and shorthands like ‘`\(...\)`’ or ‘`\[...\]`’ is built-in and not customizable. Support for other math macros and environments can be adapted by customizing the variables `font-latex-match-math-command-keywords` and `texmathp-tex-commands` respectively. It is no longer recommended to customize `font-latex-math-environments`.

To convert your customization in `font-latex-math-environments` into `texmathp-tex-commands`, please register your own math environments, together with starred variants if any, as entries of `env-on` type in `texmathp-tex-commands`, then clear out `font-latex-math-environments`. You have to restart Emacs for this new customization to take effect for fontification.

In order to make math constructs more readable, font-latex displays subscript and superscript parts in a smaller font and raised or lowered respectively. This fontification feature can be controlled with the variables `font-latex-fontify-script` and `font-latex-script-display`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **font-latex-fontify-script**

If non-nil, fontify subscript and superscript strings. Concretely, this means that the scripts are raised or lowered.

Another possiblity is setting this variable to the symbol `multi-level`. In this case, in a formula *x^\{y^z}*, *y* is raised above and smaller than *x*, and *z* is raised above and smaller than *y*. With many script levels, the text might become too small to be readable. (See `font-latex-fontify-script-max-level` below.)

Lastly, you can set this variable to `invisible` whose behavior is like `multi-level`, and in addition the super-/subscript characters *^* and *\_* are not displayed.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **font-latex-fontify-script-max-level**

Maximum scriptification level for which script faces are applied.

The faces `font-latex-superscript-face` and `font-latex-subscript-face` define custom `:height` values ﹤ 1.0. Therefore, scripts are displayed with a slightly smaller font than normal math text. If `font-latex-fontify-script` is `multi-level` or `invisible`, the font size becomes too small to be readable after a few levels. This option allows to specify the maximum level after which the size of the script text won’t be shrunken anymore.

For example, in the expression *x^\{y^\{z^a\_b}}*, *x* has scriptification level 0, *y* has level 1, *z* has level 2, and both *a* and *b* have scriptification level 3.

If `font-latex-fontify-script-max-level` was 2, then *z*, *a*, and *b* would have the same font size. If it was 3 or more, then *a* and *b* were smaller than *z* just in the same way as *z* is smaller than *y* and *y* is smaller than *x*.

The script characters ‘`^`’ and ‘`_`’ themselves are also fontified with an own face named `font-latex-script-char-face`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **font-latex-script-display**

Display specification for subscript and superscript content. The car is used for subscript, the cdr is used for superscript. The feature is implemented using so-called display properties. For information on what exactly to specify for the values, see [(elisp)Other Display Specs](/docs/auctex/Other-Display-Specs) section ‘Other Display Specifications’ in GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual.
