---
slug: Starting-a-Command
---

There are two ways to run an external command, you can either run it on the current document with `TeX-command-master`, or on the current region with `TeX-command-region`. A special case of running TeX on a region is `TeX-command-buffer` which differs from `TeX-command-master` if the current buffer is not its own master file.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **TeX-command-master**

(`C-c C-c`) Query the user for a command, and run it on the master file associated with the current buffer. The name of the master file is controlled by the variable `TeX-master`. The available commands are controlled by the variable `TeX-command-list`.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **TeX-command-region**

(`C-c C-r`) Query the user for a command, and run it on the contents of the selected region. The region contents are written into the region file, after extracting the header and trailer from the master file. If mark is inactive (which can happen with Transient Mark mode), use the old region. See also the command `TeX-pin-region` about how to fix a region.

The name of the region file is controlled by the variable `TeX-region`. The name of the master file is controlled by the variable `TeX-master`. The header is all text up to the line matching the regular expression `TeX-header-end`. The trailer is all text from the line matching the regular expression `TeX-trailer-start`. The available commands are controlled by the variable `TeX-command-list`.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **TeX-command-buffer**

(`C-c C-b`) Query the user for a command, and apply it to the contents of the current buffer. The buffer contents are written into the region file, after extracting the header and trailer from the master file. The command is then actually run on the region file. See above for details.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **LaTeX-command-section**

(`C-c C-z`) Query the user for a command, and apply it to the current section (or part, chapter, subsection, paragraph, or subparagraph). What makes the current section is determined by `LaTeX-command-section-level` which can be enlarged/shrunken using `LaTeX-command-section-change-level` (`C-c M-z`). The given numeric prefix arg is added to the current value of `LaTeX-command-section-level`. By default, `LaTeX-command-section-level` is initialized with the current document’s `LaTeX-largest-level`. The buffer contents are written into the region file, after extracting the header and trailer from the master file. The command is then actually run on the region file. See `TeX-command-region` for details.

It is also possible to compile automatically the whole document until it is ready with a single command: `TeX-command-run-all`.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **TeX-command-run-all**

(`C-c C-a`) Compile the current document until an error occurs or it is finished. If compilation finishes successfully, run the viewer at the end.

Here are some relevant variables.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-region**

The name of the file for temporarily storing the text when formatting the current region.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-header-end**

A regular expression matching the end of the header. By default, this is ‘`\begin{document}`’ in LaTeX mode and ‘`%**end of header`’ in TeX mode.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-trailer-start**

A regular expression matching the start of the trailer. By default, this is ‘`\end{document}`’ in LaTeX mode and ‘`\bye`’ in TeX mode.

If you want to change the values of `TeX-header-end` and `TeX-trailer-start` you can do this for all files by setting the variables in a mode hook or per file by specifying them as file variables (see [(emacs)File Variables](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/emacs.html#File-Variables) section ‘File Variables’ in The Emacs Editor).

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **TeX-pin-region**

(`C-c C-t C-r`) If you don’t have a mode like Transient Mark mode active, where marks get disabled automatically, the region would need to get properly set before each call to `TeX-command-region`. If you fix the current region with `C-c C-t C-r`, then it will get used for more commands even though mark and point may change. An explicitly activated mark, however, will always define a new region when calling `TeX-command-region`.

AUCTeX will allow one process for each document, plus one process for the region file to be active at the same time. Thus, if you are editing `n` different documents, you can have `n` plus one processes running at the same time. If the last process you started was on the region, the commands described in [Debugging](Debugging) and [Control](Control) will work on that process, otherwise they will work on the process associated with the current document.
