---
slug: Debugging
---

Once you’ve formatted your document you may ‘debug’ it, i.e. browse through the errors (La)TeX reported. You may also have a look at a nicely formatted list of all errors and warnings reported by the compiler.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **TeX-next-error*** `arg` `reparse`*

(`` C-c ` ``) Go to the next error reported by TeX. The view will be split in two, with the cursor placed as close as possible to the error in the top view. In the bottom view, the error message will be displayed along with some explanatory text.

An optional numeric `arg`, positive or negative, specifies how many error messages to move. A negative `arg` means to move back to previous error messages, see also `TeX-previous-error`.

The optional `reparse` argument makes AUCTeX reparse the error message buffer and start the debugging from the first error. This can also be achieved by calling the function with a prefix argument (`C-u`).

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **TeX-previous-error*** `arg`*

(`M-g p`) Go to the previous error reported by TeX. An optional numeric `arg` specifies how many error messages to move backward. This is like calling `TeX-next-error` with a negative argument.

The command `TeX-previous-error` works only if AUCTeX can parse the whole TeX log buffer. This is controlled by the `TeX-parse-all-errors` variable.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-parse-all-errors**

If t, AUCTeX automatically parses the whole output log buffer right after running a TeX command, in order to collect all warnings and errors. This makes it possible to navigate back and forth between the error messages using `TeX-next-error` and `TeX-previous-error`. This is the default. If nil, AUCTeX does not parse the whole output log buffer and `TeX-previous-error` cannot be used.

As default, AUCTeX will display a special help buffer containing the error reported by TeX along with the documentation. There is however an ‘expert’ option, which allows you to display the real TeX output.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-display-help**

If t AUCTeX will automatically display a help text whenever an error is encountered using `TeX-next-error` (`` C-c ` ``). If nil a terse information about the error is displayed in the echo area. If `expert` AUCTeX will display the output buffer with the raw TeX output.

|                                          |    |                                     |
| :--------------------------------------- | -- | :---------------------------------- |
| [• Ignoring warnings](Ignoring-warnings) |    | Controlling warnings to be reported |
| [• Error overview](Error-overview)       |    | List of all errors and warnings     |
