---
slug: Ignoring-warnings
---

Normally AUCTeX will only report real errors, but you may as well ask it to report ‘bad boxes’ and warnings as well.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **TeX-toggle-debug-bad-boxes**

(`C-c C-t C-b`) Toggle whether AUCTeX should stop at bad boxes (i.e. overfull and underfull boxes) as well as normal errors. The boolean option `TeX-debug-bad-boxes` is set accordingly.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **TeX-toggle-debug-warnings**

(`C-c C-t C-w`) Toggle whether AUCTeX should stop at warnings as well as normal errors. The boolean option `TeX-debug-warnings` is set accordingly.

While many users desire to have warnings reported after compilation, there are certain warnings that are considered unimportant and users want to ignore them. For a more fine-grained control of what kinds of warnings should be shown after compilation, AUCTeX provides other options.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-ignore-warnings**

Controls which warnings are to be ignored.

It can be a regexp matching the message of the warnings to be ignored.

More advanced users can set also this option to a symbol with the name of a custom function taking as arguments all the information of the warning listed in `TeX-error-list` variable, except the last one about whether to ignore the warning. See the code of `TeX-warning` function and the documentation of `TeX-error-list` for more details.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **TeX-toggle-suppress-ignored-warnings**

(`C-c C-t C-x`) Toggle whether AUCTeX should actually hide the ignored warnings specified with `TeX-ignore-warnings`. The boolean option `TeX-suppress-ignored-warnings` is set accordingly. If this is nil, all warnings are shown, even those matched by `TeX-ignore-warnings`, otherwise these are hidden.

Note that `TeX-debug-warnings` takes the precedence: if it is nil, all warnings are hidden in any case.
