---
slug: Error-overview
---

When the option `TeX-parse-all-errors` is non-nil, you will be also able to open an overview of all errors and warnings reported by the TeX compiler.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **TeX-error-overview**

Show an overview of the errors and warnings occurred in the last TeX run.

In this window you can visit the error on which point is on by pressing ﹤RET﹥, and visit the next or previous issue by pressing ﹤n﹥ or ﹤p﹥ respectively. A prefix argument to these keys specifies how many errors to move forward or backward. You can visit an error also by clicking on its message. Jump to error point in the source code with ﹤j﹥, and use ﹤l﹥ see the error in the log buffer. In addition, you can toggle visibility of bad boxes, generic warnings, and ignored warnings with ﹤b﹥, ﹤w﹥, and ﹤x﹥, respectively (see [Ignoring warnings](/docs/auctex/Ignoring-warnings) for details). Press ﹤q﹥ to quit the overview.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-error-overview-open-after-TeX-run**

When this boolean variable is non-nil, the error overview will be automatically opened after running TeX if there are errors or warnings to show.

The error overview is opened in a new window of the current frame by default, but you can change this behavior by customizing the option `TeX-error-overview-setup`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-error-overview-setup**

Controls the frame setup of the error overview. The possible value is: `separate-frame`; with a nil value the current frame is used instead.

The parameters of the separate frame can be set with the `TeX-error-overview-frame-parameters` option.

If the display does not support multi frame, the current frame will be used regardless of the value of this variable.
