---
slug: Automatic
---

Since AUCTeX is so highly customizable, it makes sense that it is able to customize itself. The automatic customization consists of scanning TeX files and extracting symbols, environments, and things like that.

The automatic customization is done on three different levels. The global level is the level shared by all users at your site, and consists of scanning the standard TeX style files, and any extra styles added locally for all users on the site. The private level deals with those style files you have written for your own use, and use in different documents. You may have a ‘`~/lib/TeX/`’ directory where you store useful style files for your own use. The local level is for a specific directory, and deals with writing customization for the files for your normal TeX documents.

If compared with the environment variable `TEXINPUTS`, the global level corresponds to the directories built into TeX. The private level corresponds to the directories you add yourself, except for ‘`.`’, which is the local level.

|                                                       |    |                                         |
| :---------------------------------------------------- | -- | :-------------------------------------- |
| [• Automatic Global](/docs/auctex/Automatic-Global)   |    | Automatic Customization for the Site    |
| [• Automatic Private](/docs/auctex/Automatic-Private) |    | Automatic Customization for a User      |
| [• Automatic Local](/docs/auctex/Automatic-Local)     |    | Automatic Customization for a Directory |

By default AUCTeX will search for customization files in all the global, private, and local style directories, but you can also set the path directly. This is useful if you for example want to add another person’s style hooks to your path. Please note that all matching files found in `TeX-style-path` are loaded, and all hooks defined in the files will be executed.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-style-path**

List of directories to search for AUCTeX style files.

By default, when AUCTeX searches a directory for files, it will recursively search through subdirectories.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-file-recurse**

Whether to search TeX directories recursively: nil means do not recurse, a positive integer means go that far deep in the directory hierarchy, t means recurse indefinitely.

By default, AUCTeX will ignore files named ‘`.`’, ‘`..`’, ‘`SCCS`’, ‘`RCS`’, and ‘`CVS`’.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **TeX-ignore-file**

Regular expression matching file names to ignore.

These files or directories will not be considered when searching for TeX files in a directory.
