---
slug: Format-of-Descriptions
---

Functions, variables, macros, commands, user options, and special forms are described in this manual in a uniform format. The first line of a description contains the name of the item followed by its arguments, if any. The category—function, variable, or whatever—appears at the beginning of the line. The description follows on succeeding lines, sometimes with examples.

|                                                                              |    |                                                                |
| :--------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -- | :------------------------------------------------------------- |
| • [A Sample Function Description](/docs/elisp/A-Sample-Function-Description) |    | A description of an imaginary function, `foo`.                 |
| • [A Sample Variable Description](/docs/elisp/A-Sample-Variable-Description) |    | A description of an imaginary variable, `electric-future-map`. |
## 1.3.7.1 A Sample Function Description

In a function description, the name of the function being described appears first. It is followed on the same line by a list of argument names. These names are also used in the body of the description, to stand for the values of the arguments.

The appearance of the keyword `&optional` in the argument list indicates that the subsequent arguments may be omitted (omitted arguments default to `nil`). Do not write `&optional` when you call the function.

The keyword `&rest` (which must be followed by a single argument name) indicates that any number of arguments can follow. The single argument name following `&rest` receives, as its value, a list of all the remaining arguments passed to the function. Do not write `&rest` when you call the function.

Here is a description of an imaginary function `foo`:

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **foo** *integer1 \&optional integer2 \&rest integers*

The function `foo` subtracts `integer1` from `integer2`, then adds all the rest of the arguments to the result. If `integer2` is not supplied, then the number 19 is used by default.

```lisp
(foo 1 5 3 9)
     ⇒ 16
(foo 5)
     ⇒ 14
```

More generally,

```lisp
(foo w x y…)
≡
(+ (- x w) y…)
```

By convention, any argument whose name contains the name of a type (e.g., `integer`, `integer1` or `buffer`) is expected to be of that type. A plural of a type (such as `buffers`) often means a list of objects of that type. An argument named `object` may be of any type. (For a list of Emacs object types, see [Lisp Data Types](/docs/elisp/Lisp-Data-Types).) An argument with any other sort of name (e.g., `new-file`) is specific to the function; if the function has a documentation string, the type of the argument should be described there (see [Documentation](/docs/elisp/Documentation)).

See [Lambda Expressions](/docs/elisp/Lambda-Expressions), for a more complete description of arguments modified by `&optional` and `&rest`.

Command, macro, and special form descriptions have the same format, but the word ‘`Function`’ is replaced by ‘`Command`’, ‘`Macro`’, or ‘`Special Form`’, respectively. Commands are simply functions that may be called interactively; macros process their arguments differently from functions (the arguments are not evaluated), but are presented the same way.

The descriptions of macros and special forms use a more complex notation to specify optional and repeated arguments, because they can break the argument list down into separate arguments in more complicated ways. ‘`[optional-arg]`’ means that `optional-arg` is optional and ‘`repeated-args…`’ stands for zero or more arguments. Parentheses are used when several arguments are grouped into additional levels of list structure. Here is an example:

### <span className="tag specialform">`special form`</span> **count-loop** *(var \[from to \[inc]]) body…*

This imaginary special form implements a loop that executes the `body` forms and then increments the variable `var` on each iteration. On the first iteration, the variable has the value `from`; on subsequent iterations, it is incremented by one (or by `inc` if that is given). The loop exits before executing `body` if `var` equals `to`. Here is an example:

```lisp
(count-loop (i 0 10)
  (prin1 i) (princ " ")
  (prin1 (aref vector i))
  (terpri))
```

If `from` and `to` are omitted, `var` is bound to `nil` before the loop begins, and the loop exits if `var` is non-`nil` at the beginning of an iteration. Here is an example:

```lisp
(count-loop (done)
  (if (pending)
      (fixit)
    (setq done t)))
```

In this special form, the arguments `from` and `to` are optional, but must both be present or both absent. If they are present, `inc` may optionally be specified as well. These arguments are grouped with the argument `var` into a list, to distinguish them from `body`, which includes all remaining elements of the form.
## 1.3.7.2 A Sample Variable Description

A *variable* is a name that can be *bound* (or *set*) to an object. The object to which a variable is bound is called a *value*; we say also that variable holds that value. Although nearly all variables can be set by the user, certain variables exist specifically so that users can change them; these are called *user options*. Ordinary variables and user options are described using a format like that for functions, except that there are no arguments.

Here is a description of the imaginary `electric-future-map` variable.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **electric-future-map**

The value of this variable is a full keymap used by Electric Command Future mode. The functions in this map allow you to edit commands you have not yet thought about executing.

User option descriptions have the same format, but ‘`Variable`’ is replaced by ‘`User Option`’.
