---
slug: Version-Info
---

These facilities provide information about which version of Emacs is in use.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **emacs-version** *\&optional here*

This function returns a string describing the version of Emacs that is running. It is useful to include this string in bug reports.

```lisp
(emacs-version)
  ⇒ "GNU Emacs 26.1 (build 1, x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu,
             GTK+ Version 3.16) of 2017-06-01"
```

If `here` is non-`nil`, it inserts the text in the buffer before point, and returns `nil`. When this function is called interactively, it prints the same information in the echo area, but giving a prefix argument makes `here` non-`nil`.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **emacs-build-time**

The value of this variable indicates the time at which Emacs was built. It uses the style of `current-time` (see [Time of Day](/docs/elisp/Time-of-Day)), or is `nil` if the information is not available.

```lisp
emacs-build-time
     ⇒ (20614 63694 515336 438000)
```

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **emacs-version**

The value of this variable is the version of Emacs being run. It is a string such as `"26.1"`. A value with three numeric components, such as `"26.0.91"`, indicates an unreleased test version. (Prior to Emacs 26.1, the string includes an extra final component with the integer that is now stored in `emacs-build-number`; e.g., `"25.1.1"`.)

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **emacs-major-version**

The major version number of Emacs, as an integer. For Emacs version 23.1, the value is 23.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **emacs-minor-version**

The minor version number of Emacs, as an integer. For Emacs version 23.1, the value is 1.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **emacs-build-number**

An integer that increments each time Emacs is built in the same directory (without cleaning). This is only of relevance when developing Emacs.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **emacs-repository-version**

A string that gives the repository revision from which Emacs was built. If Emacs was built outside revision control, the value is `nil`.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **emacs-repository-branch**

A string that gives the repository branch from which Emacs was built. In the most cases this is `"master"`. If Emacs was built outside revision control, the value is `nil`.
