---
slug: Sequencing
---

Evaluating forms in the order they appear is the most common way control passes from one form to another. In some contexts, such as in a function body, this happens automatically. Elsewhere you must use a control structure construct to do this: `progn`, the simplest control construct of Lisp.

A `progn` special form looks like this:

```lisp
(progn a b c …)
```

and it says to execute the forms `a`, `b`, `c`, and so on, in that order. These forms are called the *body* of the `progn` form. The value of the last form in the body becomes the value of the entire `progn`. `(progn)` returns `nil`.

In the early days of Lisp, `progn` was the only way to execute two or more forms in succession and use the value of the last of them. But programmers found they often needed to use a `progn` in the body of a function, where (at that time) only one form was allowed. So the body of a function was made into an implicit `progn`: several forms are allowed just as in the body of an actual `progn`. Many other control structures likewise contain an implicit `progn`. As a result, `progn` is not used as much as it was many years ago. It is needed now most often inside an `unwind-protect`, `and`, `or`, or in the `then`-part of an `if`.

### <span className="tag specialform">`special form`</span> **progn** *forms…*

This special form evaluates all of the `forms`, in textual order, returning the result of the final form.

```lisp
(progn (print "The first form")
       (print "The second form")
       (print "The third form"))
     -| "The first form"
     -| "The second form"
     -| "The third form"
⇒ "The third form"
```

Two other constructs likewise evaluate a series of forms but return different values:

### <span className="tag specialform">`special form`</span> **prog1** *form1 forms…*

This special form evaluates `form1` and all of the `forms`, in textual order, returning the result of `form1`.

```lisp
(prog1 (print "The first form")
       (print "The second form")
       (print "The third form"))
     -| "The first form"
     -| "The second form"
     -| "The third form"
⇒ "The first form"
```

Here is a way to remove the first element from a list in the variable `x`, then return the value of that former element:

```lisp
(prog1 (car x) (setq x (cdr x)))
```

### <span className="tag specialform">`special form`</span> **prog2** *form1 form2 forms…*

This special form evaluates `form1`, `form2`, and all of the following `forms`, in textual order, returning the result of `form2`.

```lisp
(prog2 (print "The first form")
       (print "The second form")
       (print "The third form"))
     -| "The first form"
     -| "The second form"
     -| "The third form"
⇒ "The second form"
```
