---
slug: Setting-Generalized-Variables
---

The `setf` macro is the most basic way to operate on generalized variables. The `setf` form is like `setq`, except that it accepts arbitrary place forms on the left side rather than just symbols. For example, `(setf (car a) b)` sets the car of `a` to `b`, doing the same operation as `(setcar a b)`, but without you having to use two separate functions for setting and accessing this type of place.

### <span className="tag macro">`macro`</span> **setf** *\[place form]…*

This macro evaluates `form` and stores it in `place`, which must be a valid generalized variable form. If there are several `place` and `form` pairs, the assignments are done sequentially just as with `setq`. `setf` returns the value of the last `form`.

The following Lisp forms are the forms in Emacs that will work as generalized variables, and so may appear in the `place` argument of `setf`:

*   A symbol. In other words, `(setf x y)` is exactly equivalent to `(setq x y)`, and `setq` itself is strictly speaking redundant given that `setf` exists. Most programmers will continue to prefer `setq` for setting simple variables, though, for stylistic and historical reasons. The macro `(setf x y)` actually expands to `(setq x y)`, so there is no performance penalty for using it in compiled code.

*   A call to any of the following standard Lisp functions:

    ```lisp
    aref      cddr      symbol-function
    car       elt       symbol-plist
    caar      get       symbol-value
    cadr      gethash
    cdr       nth
    cdar      nthcdr
    ```

*   A call to any of the following Emacs-specific functions:

    ```lisp
    alist-get                     process-get
    frame-parameter               process-sentinel
    terminal-parameter            window-buffer
    keymap-parent                 window-display-table
    match-data                    window-dedicated-p
    overlay-get                   window-hscroll
    overlay-start                 window-parameter
    overlay-end                   window-point
    process-buffer                window-start
    process-filter                default-value
    ```

`setf` signals an error if you pass a `place` form that it does not know how to handle.

Note that for `nthcdr`, the list argument of the function must itself be a valid `place` form. For example, `(setf (nthcdr 0 foo) 7)` will set `foo` itself to 7.

The macros `push` (see [List Variables](/docs/elisp/List-Variables)) and `pop` (see [List Elements](/docs/elisp/List-Elements)) can manipulate generalized variables, not just lists. `(pop place)` removes and returns the first element of the list stored in `place`. It is analogous to `(prog1 (car place) (setf place (cdr place)))`, except that it takes care to evaluate all subforms only once. `(push x place)` inserts `x` at the front of the list stored in `place`. It is analogous to `(setf place (cons x place))`, except for evaluation of the subforms. Note that `push` and `pop` on an `nthcdr` place can be used to insert or delete at any position in a list.

The `cl-lib` library defines various extensions for generalized variables, including additional `setf` places. See [Generalized Variables](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/cl.html#Generalized-Variables) in Common Lisp Extensions.
