---
slug: Function-Cells
---

The *function definition* of a symbol is the object stored in the function cell of the symbol. The functions described here access, test, and set the function cell of symbols.

See also the function `indirect-function`. See [Definition of indirect-function](Definition-of-indirect_002dfunction).

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **symbol-function** *symbol*

This returns the object in the function cell of `symbol`. It does not check that the returned object is a legitimate function.

If the function cell is void, the return value is `nil`. To distinguish between a function cell that is void and one set to `nil`, use `fboundp` (see below).

```lisp
(defun bar (n) (+ n 2))
(symbol-function 'bar)
     ⇒ (lambda (n) (+ n 2))
```

```lisp
(fset 'baz 'bar)
     ⇒ bar
```

```lisp
(symbol-function 'baz)
     ⇒ bar
```

If you have never given a symbol any function definition, we say that that symbol’s function cell is *void*. In other words, the function cell does not have any Lisp object in it. If you try to call the symbol as a function, Emacs signals a `void-function` error.

Note that void is not the same as `nil` or the symbol `void`. The symbols `nil` and `void` are Lisp objects, and can be stored into a function cell just as any other object can be (and they can be valid functions if you define them in turn with `defun`). A void function cell contains no object whatsoever.

You can test the voidness of a symbol’s function definition with `fboundp`. After you have given a symbol a function definition, you can make it void once more using `fmakunbound`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **fboundp** *symbol*

This function returns `t` if the symbol has an object in its function cell, `nil` otherwise. It does not check that the object is a legitimate function.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **fmakunbound** *symbol*

This function makes `symbol`’s function cell void, so that a subsequent attempt to access this cell will cause a `void-function` error. It returns `symbol`. (See also `makunbound`, in [Void Variables](Void-Variables).)

```lisp
(defun foo (x) x)
(foo 1)
     ⇒1
```

```lisp
(fmakunbound 'foo)
     ⇒ foo
```

```lisp
(foo 1)
error→ Symbol's function definition is void: foo
```

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **fset** *symbol definition*

This function stores `definition` in the function cell of `symbol`. The result is `definition`. Normally `definition` should be a function or the name of a function, but this is not checked. The argument `symbol` is an ordinary evaluated argument.

The primary use of this function is as a subroutine by constructs that define or alter functions, like `defun` or `advice-add` (see [Advising Functions](Advising-Functions)). You can also use it to give a symbol a function definition that is not a function, e.g., a keyboard macro (see [Keyboard Macros](Keyboard-Macros)):

```lisp
;; Define a named keyboard macro.
(fset 'kill-two-lines "\^u2\^k")
     ⇒ "\^u2\^k"
```

It you wish to use `fset` to make an alternate name for a function, consider using `defalias` instead. See [Definition of defalias](Definition-of-defalias).
