---
slug: Indenting-Macros
---

Within a macro definition, you can use the `declare` form (see [Defining Macros](/docs/elisp/Defining-Macros)) to specify how `TAB` should indent calls to the macro. An indentation specification is written like this:

```lisp
(declare (indent indent-spec))
```

This results in the `lisp-indent-function` property being set on the macro name.

Here are the possibilities for `indent-spec`:

### `nil`

This is the same as no property—use the standard indentation pattern.

### `defun`

Handle this function like a ‘`def`’ construct: treat the second line as the start of a *body*.

### an integer, `number`

The first `number` arguments of the function are *distinguished* arguments; the rest are considered the body of the expression. A line in the expression is indented according to whether the first argument on it is distinguished or not. If the argument is part of the body, the line is indented `lisp-body-indent` more columns than the open-parenthesis starting the containing expression. If the argument is distinguished and is either the first or second argument, it is indented *twice* that many extra columns. If the argument is distinguished and not the first or second argument, the line uses the standard pattern.

### a symbol, `symbol`

`symbol` should be a function name; that function is called to calculate the indentation of a line within this expression. The function receives two arguments:

### `pos`

The position at which the line being indented begins.

### `state`

The value returned by `parse-partial-sexp` (a Lisp primitive for indentation and nesting computation) when it parses up to the beginning of this line.

It should return either a number, which is the number of columns of indentation for that line, or a list whose car is such a number. The difference between returning a number and returning a list is that a number says that all following lines at the same nesting level should be indented just like this one; a list says that following lines might call for different indentations. This makes a difference when the indentation is being computed by `C-M-q`; if the value is a number, `C-M-q` need not recalculate indentation for the following lines until the end of the list.
