---
slug: Simple-Types
---

This section describes all the simple customization types. For several of these customization types, the customization widget provides inline completion with `C-M-i` or `M-TAB`.

### `sexp`

The value may be any Lisp object that can be printed and read back. You can use `sexp` as a fall-back for any option, if you don’t want to take the time to work out a more specific type to use.

### `integer`

The value must be an integer.

### `number`

The value must be a number (floating point or integer).

### `float`

The value must be floating point.

### `string`

The value must be a string. The customization buffer shows the string without delimiting ‘`"`’ characters or ‘`\`’ quotes.

### `regexp`

Like `string` except that the string must be a valid regular expression.

### `character`

The value must be a character code. A character code is actually an integer, but this type shows the value by inserting the character in the buffer, rather than by showing the number.

### `file`

The value must be a file name. The widget provides completion.

### <span className="tag (file:must-matcht)">`(file :must-match t)`</span>``

The value must be a file name for an existing file. The widget provides completion.

### `directory`

The value must be a directory. The widget provides completion.

### `hook`

The value must be a list of functions. This customization type is used for hook variables. You can use the `:options` keyword in a hook variable’s `defcustom` to specify a list of functions recommended for use in the hook; See [Variable Definitions](Variable-Definitions).

### `symbol`

The value must be a symbol. It appears in the customization buffer as the symbol name. The widget provides completion.

### `function`

The value must be either a lambda expression or a function name. The widget provides completion for function names.

### `variable`

The value must be a variable name. The widget provides completion.

### `face`

The value must be a symbol which is a face name. The widget provides completion.

### `boolean`

The value is boolean—either `nil` or `t`. Note that by using `choice` and `const` together (see the next section), you can specify that the value must be `nil` or `t`, but also specify the text to describe each value in a way that fits the specific meaning of the alternative.

### `key-sequence`

The value is a key sequence. The customization buffer shows the key sequence using the same syntax as the `kbd` function. See [Key Sequences](Key-Sequences).

### `coding-system`

The value must be a coding-system name, and you can do completion with `M-TAB`.

### `color`

The value must be a valid color name. The widget provides completion for color names, as well as a sample and a button for selecting a color name from a list of color names shown in a `*Colors*` buffer.
