---
slug: Defining-New-Types
---

In the previous sections we have described how to construct elaborate type specifications for `defcustom`. In some cases you may want to give such a type specification a name. The obvious case is when you are using the same type for many user options: rather than repeat the specification for each option, you can give the type specification a name, and use that name each `defcustom`. The other case is when a user option’s value is a recursive data structure. To make it possible for a datatype to refer to itself, it needs to have a name.

Since custom types are implemented as widgets, the way to define a new customize type is to define a new widget. We are not going to describe the widget interface here in details, see [Introduction](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/widget.html#Top) in The Emacs Widget Library, for that. Instead we are going to demonstrate the minimal functionality needed for defining new customize types by a simple example.

```lisp
(define-widget 'binary-tree-of-string 'lazy
  "A binary tree made of cons-cells and strings."
  :offset 4
  :tag "Node"
  :type '(choice (string :tag "Leaf" :value "")
                 (cons :tag "Interior"
                       :value ("" . "")
                       binary-tree-of-string
                       binary-tree-of-string)))

(defcustom foo-bar ""
  "Sample variable holding a binary tree of strings."
  :type 'binary-tree-of-string)
```

The function to define a new widget is called `define-widget`. The first argument is the symbol we want to make a new widget type. The second argument is a symbol representing an existing widget, the new widget is going to be defined in terms of difference from the existing widget. For the purpose of defining new customization types, the `lazy` widget is perfect, because it accepts a `:type` keyword argument with the same syntax as the keyword argument to `defcustom` with the same name. The third argument is a documentation string for the new widget. You will be able to see that string with the `M-x widget-browse RET binary-tree-of-string RET` command.

After these mandatory arguments follow the keyword arguments. The most important is `:type`, which describes the data type we want to match with this widget. Here a `binary-tree-of-string` is described as being either a string, or a cons-cell whose car and cdr are themselves both `binary-tree-of-string`. Note the reference to the widget type we are currently in the process of defining. The `:tag` attribute is a string to name the widget in the user interface, and the `:offset` argument is there to ensure that child nodes are indented four spaces relative to the parent node, making the tree structure apparent in the customization buffer.

The `defcustom` shows how the new widget can be used as an ordinary customization type.

The reason for the name `lazy` is that the other composite widgets convert their inferior widgets to internal form when the widget is instantiated in a buffer. This conversion is recursive, so the inferior widgets will convert *their* inferior widgets. If the data structure is itself recursive, this conversion is an infinite recursion. The `lazy` widget prevents the recursion: it convert its `:type` argument only when needed.
