---
slug: Edebug-and-Macros
---

To make Edebug properly instrument expressions that call macros, some extra care is needed. This subsection explains the details.

|                                                          |    |                                                |
| :------------------------------------------------------- | -- | :--------------------------------------------- |
| • [Instrumenting Macro Calls](Instrumenting-Macro-Calls) |    | The basic problem.                             |
| • [Specification List](Specification-List)               |    | How to specify complex patterns of evaluation. |
| • [Backtracking](Backtracking)                           |    | What Edebug does when matching fails.          |
| • [Specification Examples](Specification-Examples)       |    | To help understand specifications.             |
## 18.2.15.1 Instrumenting Macro Calls

When Edebug instruments an expression that calls a Lisp macro, it needs additional information about the macro to do the job properly. This is because there is no a-priori way to tell which subexpressions of the macro call are forms to be evaluated. (Evaluation may occur explicitly in the macro body, or when the resulting expansion is evaluated, or any time later.)

Therefore, you must define an Edebug specification for each macro that Edebug will encounter, to explain the format of calls to that macro. To do this, add a `debug` declaration to the macro definition. Here is a simple example that shows the specification for the `for` example macro (see [Argument Evaluation](Argument-Evaluation)).

```lisp
(defmacro for (var from init to final do &rest body)
  "Execute a simple \"for\" loop.
For example, (for i from 1 to 10 do (print i))."
  (declare (debug (symbolp "from" form "to" form "do" &rest form)))
  ...)
```

The Edebug specification says which parts of a call to the macro are forms to be evaluated. For simple macros, the specification often looks very similar to the formal argument list of the macro definition, but specifications are much more general than macro arguments. See [Defining Macros](Defining-Macros), for more explanation of the `declare` form.

Take care to ensure that the specifications are known to Edebug when you instrument code. If you are instrumenting a function which uses a macro defined in another file, you may first need to either evaluate the `require` forms in the file containing your function, or explicitly load the file containing the macro. If the definition of a macro is wrapped by `eval-when-compile`, you may need to evaluate it.

You can also define an edebug specification for a macro separately from the macro definition with `def-edebug-spec`. Adding `debug` declarations is preferred, and more convenient, for macro definitions in Lisp, but `def-edebug-spec` makes it possible to define Edebug specifications for special forms implemented in C.

### <span className="tag macro">`macro`</span> **def-edebug-spec** *macro specification*

Specify which expressions of a call to macro `macro` are forms to be evaluated. `specification` should be the edebug specification. Neither argument is evaluated.

The `macro` argument can actually be any symbol, not just a macro name.

Here is a table of the possibilities for `specification` and how each directs processing of arguments.

### `t`

All arguments are instrumented for evaluation.

### `0`

None of the arguments is instrumented.

### a symbol

The symbol must have an Edebug specification, which is used instead. This indirection is repeated until another kind of specification is found. This allows you to inherit the specification from another macro.

### a list

The elements of the list describe the types of the arguments of a calling form. The possible elements of a specification list are described in the following sections.

If a macro has no Edebug specification, neither through a `debug` declaration nor through a `def-edebug-spec` call, the variable `edebug-eval-macro-args` comes into play.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **edebug-eval-macro-args**

This controls the way Edebug treats macro arguments with no explicit Edebug specification. If it is `nil` (the default), none of the arguments is instrumented for evaluation. Otherwise, all arguments are instrumented.
## 18.2.15.2 Specification List

A *specification list* is required for an Edebug specification if some arguments of a macro call are evaluated while others are not. Some elements in a specification list match one or more arguments, but others modify the processing of all following elements. The latter, called *specification keywords*, are symbols beginning with ‘`&`’ (such as `&optional`).

A specification list may contain sublists, which match arguments that are themselves lists, or it may contain vectors used for grouping. Sublists and groups thus subdivide the specification list into a hierarchy of levels. Specification keywords apply only to the remainder of the sublist or group they are contained in.

When a specification list involves alternatives or repetition, matching it against an actual macro call may require backtracking. For more details, see [Backtracking](Backtracking).

Edebug specifications provide the power of regular expression matching, plus some context-free grammar constructs: the matching of sublists with balanced parentheses, recursive processing of forms, and recursion via indirect specifications.

Here’s a table of the possible elements of a specification list, with their meanings (see [Specification Examples](Specification-Examples), for the referenced examples):

### `sexp`

A single unevaluated Lisp object, which is not instrumented.

### `form`

A single evaluated expression, which is instrumented. If your macro wraps the expression with `lambda` before it is evaluated, use `def-form` instead. See `def-form` below.

### `place`

A generalized variable. See [Generalized Variables](Generalized-Variables).

### `body`

Short for `&rest form`. See `&rest` below. If your macro wraps its body of code with `lambda` before it is evaluated, use `def-body` instead. See `def-body` below.

### `function-form`

A function form: either a quoted function symbol, a quoted lambda expression, or a form (that should evaluate to a function symbol or lambda expression). This is useful when an argument that’s a lambda expression might be quoted with `quote` rather than `function`, since it instruments the body of the lambda expression either way.

### `lambda-expr`

A lambda expression with no quoting.

### `&optional`

All following elements in the specification list are optional; as soon as one does not match, Edebug stops matching at this level.

To make just a few elements optional, followed by non-optional elements, use `[&optional specs…]`. To specify that several elements must all match or none, use `&optional [specs…]`. See the `defun` example.

### `&rest`

All following elements in the specification list are repeated zero or more times. In the last repetition, however, it is not a problem if the expression runs out before matching all of the elements of the specification list.

To repeat only a few elements, use `[&rest specs…]`. To specify several elements that must all match on every repetition, use `&rest [specs…]`.

### `&or`

Each of the following elements in the specification list is an alternative. One of the alternatives must match, or the `&or` specification fails.

Each list element following `&or` is a single alternative. To group two or more list elements as a single alternative, enclose them in `[…]`.

### `&not`

Each of the following elements is matched as alternatives as if by using `&or`, but if any of them match, the specification fails. If none of them match, nothing is matched, but the `&not` specification succeeds.

### `&define`

Indicates that the specification is for a defining form. Edebug’s definition of a defining form is a form containing one or more code forms which are saved and executed later, after the execution of the defining form.

The defining form itself is not instrumented (that is, Edebug does not stop before and after the defining form), but forms inside it typically will be instrumented. The `&define` keyword should be the first element in a list specification.

### `nil`

This is successful when there are no more arguments to match at the current argument list level; otherwise it fails. See sublist specifications and the backquote example.

### `gate`

No argument is matched but backtracking through the gate is disabled while matching the remainder of the specifications at this level. This is primarily used to generate more specific syntax error messages. See [Backtracking](Backtracking), for more details. Also see the `let` example.

### `other-symbol`

Any other symbol in a specification list may be a predicate or an indirect specification.

If the symbol has an Edebug specification, this *indirect specification* should be either a list specification that is used in place of the symbol, or a function that is called to process the arguments. The specification may be defined with `def-edebug-spec` just as for macros. See the `defun` example.

Otherwise, the symbol should be a predicate. The predicate is called with the argument, and if the predicate returns `nil`, the specification fails and the argument is not instrumented.

Some suitable predicates include `symbolp`, `integerp`, `stringp`, `vectorp`, and `atom`.

### `[elements…]`

A vector of elements groups the elements into a single *group specification*. Its meaning has nothing to do with vectors.

### `"string"`

The argument should be a symbol named `string`. This specification is equivalent to the quoted symbol, `'symbol`, where the name of `symbol` is the `string`, but the string form is preferred.

### `(vector elements…)`

The argument should be a vector whose elements must match the `elements` in the specification. See the backquote example.

### `(elements…)`

Any other list is a *sublist specification* and the argument must be a list whose elements match the specification `elements`.

A sublist specification may be a dotted list and the corresponding list argument may then be a dotted list. Alternatively, the last CDR of a dotted list specification may be another sublist specification (via a grouping or an indirect specification, e.g., `(spec . [(more specs…)])`) whose elements match the non-dotted list arguments. This is useful in recursive specifications such as in the backquote example. Also see the description of a `nil` specification above for terminating such recursion.

Note that a sublist specification written as `(specs . nil)` is equivalent to `(specs)`, and `(specs . (sublist-elements…))` is equivalent to `(specs sublist-elements…)`.

Here is a list of additional specifications that may appear only after `&define`. See the `defun` example.

### `name`

The argument, a symbol, is the name of the defining form.

A defining form is not required to have a name field; and it may have multiple name fields.

### <span className="tag :name">`:name`</span>``

This construct does not actually match an argument. The element following `:name` should be a symbol; it is used as an additional name component for the definition. You can use this to add a unique, static component to the name of the definition. It may be used more than once.

### `arg`

The argument, a symbol, is the name of an argument of the defining form. However, lambda-list keywords (symbols starting with ‘`&`’) are not allowed.

### `lambda-list`

This matches a lambda list—the argument list of a lambda expression.

### `def-body`

The argument is the body of code in a definition. This is like `body`, described above, but a definition body must be instrumented with a different Edebug call that looks up information associated with the definition. Use `def-body` for the highest level list of forms within the definition.

### `def-form`

The argument is a single, highest-level form in a definition. This is like `def-body`, except it is used to match a single form rather than a list of forms. As a special case, `def-form` also means that tracing information is not output when the form is executed. See the `interactive` example.
## 18.2.15.3 Backtracking in Specifications

If a specification fails to match at some point, this does not necessarily mean a syntax error will be signaled; instead, *backtracking* will take place until all alternatives have been exhausted. Eventually every element of the argument list must be matched by some element in the specification, and every required element in the specification must match some argument.

When a syntax error is detected, it might not be reported until much later, after higher-level alternatives have been exhausted, and with the point positioned further from the real error. But if backtracking is disabled when an error occurs, it can be reported immediately. Note that backtracking is also reenabled automatically in several situations; when a new alternative is established by `&optional`, `&rest`, or `&or`, or at the start of processing a sublist, group, or indirect specification. The effect of enabling or disabling backtracking is limited to the remainder of the level currently being processed and lower levels.

Backtracking is disabled while matching any of the form specifications (that is, `form`, `body`, `def-form`, and `def-body`). These specifications will match any form so any error must be in the form itself rather than at a higher level.

Backtracking is also disabled after successfully matching a quoted symbol or string specification, since this usually indicates a recognized construct. But if you have a set of alternative constructs that all begin with the same symbol, you can usually work around this constraint by factoring the symbol out of the alternatives, e.g., `["foo" &or [first case] [second case] ...]`.

Most needs are satisfied by these two ways that backtracking is automatically disabled, but occasionally it is useful to explicitly disable backtracking by using the `gate` specification. This is useful when you know that no higher alternatives could apply. See the example of the `let` specification.
## 18.2.15.4 Specification Examples

It may be easier to understand Edebug specifications by studying the examples provided here.

A `let` special form has a sequence of bindings and a body. Each of the bindings is either a symbol or a sublist with a symbol and optional expression. In the specification below, notice the `gate` inside of the sublist to prevent backtracking once a sublist is found.

```lisp
(def-edebug-spec let
  ((&rest
    &or symbolp (gate symbolp &optional form))
   body))
```

Edebug uses the following specifications for `defun` and the associated argument list and `interactive` specifications. It is necessary to handle interactive forms specially since an expression argument is actually evaluated outside of the function body. (The specification for `defmacro` is very similar to that for `defun`, but allows for the `declare` statement.)

```lisp
(def-edebug-spec defun
  (&define name lambda-list
           [&optional stringp]   ; Match the doc string, if present.
           [&optional ("interactive" interactive)]
           def-body))

(def-edebug-spec lambda-list
  (([&rest arg]
    [&optional ["&optional" arg &rest arg]]
    &optional ["&rest" arg]
    )))

(def-edebug-spec interactive
  (&optional &or stringp def-form))    ; Notice: def-form
```

The specification for backquote below illustrates how to match dotted lists and use `nil` to terminate recursion. It also illustrates how components of a vector may be matched. (The actual specification defined by Edebug is a little different, and does not support dotted lists because doing so causes very deep recursion that could fail.)

```lisp
(def-edebug-spec \` (backquote-form))   ; Alias just for clarity.

(def-edebug-spec backquote-form
  (&or ([&or "," ",@"] &or ("quote" backquote-form) form)
       (backquote-form . [&or nil backquote-form])
       (vector &rest backquote-form)
       sexp))
```
