---
slug: Printing-in-Edebug
---

If an expression in your program produces a value containing circular list structure, you may get an error when Edebug attempts to print it.

One way to cope with circular structure is to set `print-length` or `print-level` to truncate the printing. Edebug does this for you; it binds `print-length` and `print-level` to the values of the variables `edebug-print-length` and `edebug-print-level` (so long as they have non-`nil` values). See [Output Variables](Output-Variables).

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **edebug-print-length**

If non-`nil`, Edebug binds `print-length` to this value while printing results. The default value is `50`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **edebug-print-level**

If non-`nil`, Edebug binds `print-level` to this value while printing results. The default value is `50`.

You can also print circular structures and structures that share elements more informatively by binding `print-circle` to a non-`nil` value.

Here is an example of code that creates a circular structure:

```lisp
(setq a (list 'x 'y))
(setcar a a)
```

Custom printing prints this as ‘`Result: #1=(#1# y)`’. The ‘`#1=`’ notation labels the structure that follows it with the label ‘`1`’, and the ‘`#1#`’ notation references the previously labeled structure. This notation is used for any shared elements of lists or vectors.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **edebug-print-circle**

If non-`nil`, Edebug binds `print-circle` to this value while printing results. The default value is `t`.

Other programs can also use custom printing; see `cust-print.el` for details.
