---
slug: Streams-Intro
---

*Reading* a Lisp object means parsing a Lisp expression in textual form and producing a corresponding Lisp object. This is how Lisp programs get into Lisp from files of Lisp code. We call the text the *read syntax* of the object. For example, the text ‘`(a . 5)`’ is the read syntax for a cons cell whose CAR is `a` and whose CDR is the number 5.

*Printing* a Lisp object means producing text that represents that object—converting the object to its *printed representation* (see [Printed Representation](Printed-Representation)). Printing the cons cell described above produces the text ‘`(a . 5)`’.

Reading and printing are more or less inverse operations: printing the object that results from reading a given piece of text often produces the same text, and reading the text that results from printing an object usually produces a similar-looking object. For example, printing the symbol `foo` produces the text ‘`foo`’, and reading that text returns the symbol `foo`. Printing a list whose elements are `a` and `b` produces the text ‘`(a b)`’, and reading that text produces a list (but not the same list) with elements `a` and `b`.

However, these two operations are not precisely inverse to each other. There are three kinds of exceptions:

*   Printing can produce text that cannot be read. For example, buffers, windows, frames, subprocesses and markers print as text that starts with ‘`#`’; if you try to read this text, you get an error. There is no way to read those data types.
*   One object can have multiple textual representations. For example, ‘`1`’ and ‘`01`’ represent the same integer, and ‘`(a b)`’ and ‘`(a . (b))`’ represent the same list. Reading will accept any of the alternatives, but printing must choose one of them.
*   Comments can appear at certain points in the middle of an object’s read sequence without affecting the result of reading it.
