---
slug: Output-Variables
---

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **standard-output**

The value of this variable is the default output stream—the stream that print functions use when the `stream` argument is `nil`. The default is `t`, meaning display in the echo area.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **print-quoted**

If this is non-`nil`, that means to print quoted forms using abbreviated reader syntax, e.g., `(quote foo)` prints as `'foo`, and `(function foo)` as `#'foo`. The default is `t`.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **print-escape-newlines**

If this variable is non-`nil`, then newline characters in strings are printed as ‘`\n`’ and formfeeds are printed as ‘`\f`’. Normally these characters are printed as actual newlines and formfeeds.

This variable affects the print functions `prin1` and `print` that print with quoting. It does not affect `princ`. Here is an example using `prin1`:

```lisp
(prin1 "a\nb")
     -| "a
     -| b"
     ⇒ "a
b"
```



```lisp
(let ((print-escape-newlines t))
  (prin1 "a\nb"))
     -| "a\nb"
     ⇒ "a
b"
```

In the second expression, the local binding of `print-escape-newlines` is in effect during the call to `prin1`, but not during the printing of the result.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **print-escape-control-characters**

If this variable is non-`nil`, control characters in strings are printed as backslash sequences by the print functions `prin1` and `print` that print with quoting. If this variable and `print-escape-newlines` are both non-`nil`, the latter takes precedences for newlines and formfeeds.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **print-escape-nonascii**

If this variable is non-`nil`, then unibyte non-ASCII characters in strings are unconditionally printed as backslash sequences by the print functions `prin1` and `print` that print with quoting.

Those functions also use backslash sequences for unibyte non-ASCII characters, regardless of the value of this variable, when the output stream is a multibyte buffer or a marker pointing into one.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **print-escape-multibyte**

If this variable is non-`nil`, then multibyte non-ASCII characters in strings are unconditionally printed as backslash sequences by the print functions `prin1` and `print` that print with quoting.

Those functions also use backslash sequences for multibyte non-ASCII characters, regardless of the value of this variable, when the output stream is a unibyte buffer or a marker pointing into one.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **print-charset-text-property**

This variable controls printing of ‘charset’ text property on printing a string. The value should be `nil`, `t`, or `default`.

If the value is `nil`, `charset` text properties are never printed. If `t`, they are always printed.

If the value is `default`, only print `charset` text properties if there is an “unexpected" `charset` property. For ascii characters, all charsets are considered “expected". Otherwise, the expected `charset` property of a character is given by `char-charset`.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **print-length**

The value of this variable is the maximum number of elements to print in any list, vector or bool-vector. If an object being printed has more than this many elements, it is abbreviated with an ellipsis.

If the value is `nil` (the default), then there is no limit.

```lisp
(setq print-length 2)
     ⇒ 2
```

```lisp
(print '(1 2 3 4 5))
     -| (1 2 ...)
     ⇒ (1 2 ...)
```

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **print-level**

The value of this variable is the maximum depth of nesting of parentheses and brackets when printed. Any list or vector at a depth exceeding this limit is abbreviated with an ellipsis. A value of `nil` (which is the default) means no limit.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **eval-expression-print-length**

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **eval-expression-print-level**

These are the values for `print-length` and `print-level` used by `eval-expression`, and thus, indirectly, by many interactive evaluation commands (see [Evaluating Emacs Lisp Expressions](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/emacs.html#Lisp-Eval) in The GNU Emacs Manual).

These variables are used for detecting and reporting circular and shared structure:

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **print-circle**

If non-`nil`, this variable enables detection of circular and shared structure in printing. See [Circular Objects](/docs/elisp/Circular-Objects).

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **print-gensym**

If non-`nil`, this variable enables detection of uninterned symbols (see [Creating Symbols](/docs/elisp/Creating-Symbols)) in printing. When this is enabled, uninterned symbols print with the prefix ‘`#:`’, which tells the Lisp reader to produce an uninterned symbol.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **print-continuous-numbering**

If non-`nil`, that means number continuously across print calls. This affects the numbers printed for ‘`#n=`’ labels and ‘`#m#`’ references. Don’t set this variable with `setq`; you should only bind it temporarily to `t` with `let`. When you do that, you should also bind `print-number-table` to `nil`.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **print-number-table**

This variable holds a vector used internally by printing to implement the `print-circle` feature. You should not use it except to bind it to `nil` when you bind `print-continuous-numbering`.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **float-output-format**

This variable specifies how to print floating-point numbers. The default is `nil`, meaning use the shortest output that represents the number without losing information.

To control output format more precisely, you can put a string in this variable. The string should hold a ‘`%`’-specification to be used in the C function `sprintf`. For further restrictions on what you can use, see the variable’s documentation string.
