---
slug: Sequence-Type
---

A *sequence* is a Lisp object that represents an ordered set of elements. There are two kinds of sequence in Emacs Lisp: *lists* and *arrays*.

Lists are the most commonly-used sequences. A list can hold elements of any type, and its length can be easily changed by adding or removing elements. See the next subsection for more about lists.

Arrays are fixed-length sequences. They are further subdivided into strings, vectors, char-tables and bool-vectors. Vectors can hold elements of any type, whereas string elements must be characters, and bool-vector elements must be `t` or `nil`. Char-tables are like vectors except that they are indexed by any valid character code. The characters in a string can have text properties like characters in a buffer (see [Text Properties](Text-Properties)), but vectors do not support text properties, even when their elements happen to be characters.

Lists, strings and the other array types also share important similarities. For example, all have a length `l`, and all have elements which can be indexed from zero to `l` minus one. Several functions, called sequence functions, accept any kind of sequence. For example, the function `length` reports the length of any kind of sequence. See [Sequences Arrays Vectors](Sequences-Arrays-Vectors).

It is generally impossible to read the same sequence twice, since sequences are always created anew upon reading. If you read the read syntax for a sequence twice, you get two sequences with equal contents. There is one exception: the empty list `()` always stands for the same object, `nil`.
