---
slug: Minibuffer-Misc
---

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **minibufferp** *\&optional buffer-or-name*

This function returns non-`nil` if `buffer-or-name` is a minibuffer. If `buffer-or-name` is omitted, it tests the current buffer.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **minibuffer-setup-hook**

This is a normal hook that is run whenever the minibuffer is entered. See [Hooks](Hooks).

### <span className="tag macro">`macro`</span> **minibuffer-with-setup-hook** *function \&rest body*

This macro executes `body` after arranging for the specified `function` to be called via `minibuffer-setup-hook`. By default, `function` is called before the other functions in the `minibuffer-setup-hook` list, but if `function` is of the form `(:append func)`<!-- /@w -->, `func` will be called *after* the other hook functions.

The `body` forms should not use the minibuffer more than once. If the minibuffer is re-entered recursively, `function` will only be called once, for the outermost use of the minibuffer.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **minibuffer-exit-hook**

This is a normal hook that is run whenever the minibuffer is exited. See [Hooks](Hooks).

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **minibuffer-help-form**

The current value of this variable is used to rebind `help-form` locally inside the minibuffer (see [Help Functions](Help-Functions)).

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **minibuffer-scroll-window**

If the value of this variable is non-`nil`, it should be a window object. When the function `scroll-other-window` is called in the minibuffer, it scrolls this window (see [Textual Scrolling](Textual-Scrolling)).

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **minibuffer-selected-window**

This function returns the window that was selected just before the minibuffer window was selected. If the selected window is not a minibuffer window, it returns `nil`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **minibuffer-message** *string \&rest args*

This function displays `string` temporarily at the end of the minibuffer text, for a few seconds, or until the next input event arrives, whichever comes first. The variable `minibuffer-message-timeout` specifies the number of seconds to wait in the absence of input. It defaults to 2. If `args` is non-`nil`, the actual message is obtained by passing `string` and `args` through `format-message`. See [Formatting Strings](Formatting-Strings).

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **minibuffer-inactive-mode**

This is the major mode used in inactive minibuffers. It uses keymap `minibuffer-inactive-mode-map`. This can be useful if the minibuffer is in a separate frame. See [Minibuffers and Frames](Minibuffers-and-Frames).
