---
slug: Minibuffer-Commands
---

This section describes some commands meant for use in the minibuffer.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **exit-minibuffer**

This command exits the active minibuffer. It is normally bound to keys in minibuffer local keymaps.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **self-insert-and-exit**

This command exits the active minibuffer after inserting the last character typed on the keyboard (found in `last-command-event`; see [Command Loop Info](/docs/elisp/Command-Loop-Info)).

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **previous-history-element** *n*

This command replaces the minibuffer contents with the value of the `n`th previous (older) history element.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **next-history-element** *n*

This command replaces the minibuffer contents with the value of the `n`th more recent history element. The position in the history can go beyond the current position and invoke “future history" (see [Text from Minibuffer](/docs/elisp/Text-from-Minibuffer)).

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **previous-matching-history-element** *pattern n*

This command replaces the minibuffer contents with the value of the `n`th previous (older) history element that matches `pattern` (a regular expression).

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **next-matching-history-element** *pattern n*

This command replaces the minibuffer contents with the value of the `n`th next (newer) history element that matches `pattern` (a regular expression).

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **previous-complete-history-element** *n*

This command replaces the minibuffer contents with the value of the `n`th previous (older) history element that completes the current contents of the minibuffer before the point.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **next-complete-history-element** *n*

This command replaces the minibuffer contents with the value of the `n`th next (newer) history element that completes the current contents of the minibuffer before the point.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **goto-history-element** *nabs*

This function puts element of the minibuffer history in the minibuffer. The argument `nabs` specifies the absolute history position in descending order, where 0 means the current element and a positive number `n` means the `n`th previous element. NABS being a negative number -`n` means the `n`th entry of “future history."
