---
slug: Completion-in-Buffers
---

Although completion is usually done in the minibuffer, the completion facility can also be used on the text in ordinary Emacs buffers. In many major modes, in-buffer completion is performed by the `C-M-i` or `M-TAB` command, bound to `completion-at-point`. See [Symbol Completion](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/emacs.html#Symbol-Completion) in The GNU Emacs Manual. This command uses the abnormal hook variable `completion-at-point-functions`:

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **completion-at-point-functions**

The value of this abnormal hook should be a list of functions, which are used to compute a completion table (see [Basic Completion](Basic-Completion)) for completing the text at point. It can be used by major modes to provide mode-specific completion tables (see [Major Mode Conventions](Major-Mode-Conventions)).

When the command `completion-at-point` runs, it calls the functions in the list one by one, without any argument. Each function should return `nil` unless it can and wants to take responsibility for the completion data for the text at point. Otherwise it should return a list of the following form:

```lisp
(start end collection . props)
```

`start` and `end` delimit the text to complete (which should enclose point). `collection` is a completion table for completing that text, in a form suitable for passing as the second argument to `try-completion` (see [Basic Completion](Basic-Completion)); completion alternatives will be generated from this completion table in the usual way, via the completion styles defined in `completion-styles` (see [Completion Variables](Completion-Variables)). `props` is a property list for additional information; any of the properties in `completion-extra-properties` are recognized (see [Completion Variables](Completion-Variables)), as well as the following additional ones:

### <span className="tag :predicate">`:predicate`</span>``

The value should be a predicate that completion candidates need to satisfy.

### <span className="tag :exclusive">`:exclusive`</span>``

If the value is `no`, then if the completion table fails to match the text at point, `completion-at-point` moves on to the next function in `completion-at-point-functions` instead of reporting a completion failure.

The functions on this hook should generally return quickly, since they may be called very often (e.g., from `post-command-hook`). Supplying a function for `collection` is strongly recommended if generating the list of completions is an expensive operation. Emacs may internally call functions in `completion-at-point-functions` many times, but care about the value of `collection` for only some of these calls. By supplying a function for `collection`, Emacs can defer generating completions until necessary. You can use `completion-table-dynamic` to create a wrapper function:

```lisp
;; Avoid this pattern.
(let ((beg ...) (end ...) (my-completions (my-make-completions)))
  (list beg end my-completions))

;; Use this instead.
(let ((beg ...) (end ...))
  (list beg
        end
        (completion-table-dynamic
          (lambda (_)
            (my-make-completions)))))
```

Additionally, the `collection` should generally not be pre-filtered based on the current text between `start` and `end`, because that is the responsibility of the caller of `completion-at-point-functions` to do that according to the completion styles it decides to use.

A function in `completion-at-point-functions` may also return a function instead of a list as described above. In that case, that returned function is called, with no argument, and it is entirely responsible for performing the completion. We discourage this usage; it is only intended to help convert old code to using `completion-at-point`.

The first function in `completion-at-point-functions` to return a non-`nil` value is used by `completion-at-point`. The remaining functions are not called. The exception to this is when there is an `:exclusive` specification, as described above.

The following function provides a convenient way to perform completion on an arbitrary stretch of text in an Emacs buffer:

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **completion-in-region** *start end collection \&optional predicate*

This function completes the text in the current buffer between the positions `start` and `end`, using `collection`. The argument `collection` has the same meaning as in `try-completion` (see [Basic Completion](Basic-Completion)).

This function inserts the completion text directly into the current buffer. Unlike `completing-read` (see [Minibuffer Completion](Minibuffer-Completion)), it does not activate the minibuffer.

For this function to work, point must be somewhere between `start` and `end`.
