---
slug: Completion-Variables
---

Here are some variables that can be used to alter the default completion behavior.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **completion-styles**

The value of this variable is a list of completion style (symbols) to use for performing completion. A *completion style* is a set of rules for generating completions. Each symbol occurring this list must have a corresponding entry in `completion-styles-alist`.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **completion-styles-alist**

This variable stores a list of available completion styles. Each element in the list has the form

```lisp
(style try-completion all-completions doc)
```

Here, `style` is the name of the completion style (a symbol), which may be used in the `completion-styles` variable to refer to this style; `try-completion` is the function that does the completion; `all-completions` is the function that lists the completions; and `doc` is a string describing the completion style.

The `try-completion` and `all-completions` functions should each accept four arguments: `string`, `collection`, `predicate`, and `point`. The `string`, `collection`, and `predicate` arguments have the same meanings as in `try-completion` (see [Basic Completion](Basic-Completion)), and the `point` argument is the position of point within `string`. Each function should return a non-`nil` value if it performed its job, and `nil` if it did not (e.g., if there is no way to complete `string` according to the completion style).

When the user calls a completion command like `minibuffer-complete` (see [Completion Commands](Completion-Commands)), Emacs looks for the first style listed in `completion-styles` and calls its `try-completion` function. If this function returns `nil`, Emacs moves to the next listed completion style and calls its `try-completion` function, and so on until one of the `try-completion` functions successfully performs completion and returns a non-`nil` value. A similar procedure is used for listing completions, via the `all-completions` functions.

See [Completion Styles](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/emacs.html#Completion-Styles) in The GNU Emacs Manual, for a description of the available completion styles.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **completion-category-overrides**

This variable specifies special completion styles and other completion behaviors to use when completing certain types of text. Its value should be an alist with elements of the form `(category . alist)`. `category` is a symbol describing what is being completed; currently, the `buffer`, `file`, and `unicode-name` categories are defined, but others can be defined via specialized completion functions (see [Programmed Completion](Programmed-Completion)). `alist` is an association list describing how completion should behave for the corresponding category. The following alist keys are supported:

### `styles`

The value should be a list of completion styles (symbols).

### `cycle`

The value should be a value for `completion-cycle-threshold` (see [Completion Options](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/emacs.html#Completion-Options) in The GNU Emacs Manual) for this category.

Additional alist entries may be defined in the future.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **completion-extra-properties**

This variable is used to specify extra properties of the current completion command. It is intended to be let-bound by specialized completion commands. Its value should be a list of property and value pairs. The following properties are supported:

### <span className="tag :annotation-function">`:annotation-function`</span>``

The value should be a function to add annotations in the completions buffer. This function must accept one argument, a completion, and should either return `nil` or a string to be displayed next to the completion.

### <span className="tag :exit-function">`:exit-function`</span>``

The value should be a function to run after performing completion. The function should accept two arguments, `string` and `status`, where `string` is the text to which the field was completed, and `status` indicates what kind of operation happened: `finished` if text is now complete, `sole` if the text cannot be further completed but completion is not finished, or `exact` if the text is a valid completion but may be further completed.
