---
slug: Quitting
---

Typing `C-g` while a Lisp function is running causes Emacs to *quit* whatever it is doing. This means that control returns to the innermost active command loop.

Typing `C-g` while the command loop is waiting for keyboard input does not cause a quit; it acts as an ordinary input character. In the simplest case, you cannot tell the difference, because `C-g` normally runs the command `keyboard-quit`, whose effect is to quit. However, when `C-g` follows a prefix key, they combine to form an undefined key. The effect is to cancel the prefix key as well as any prefix argument.

In the minibuffer, `C-g` has a different definition: it aborts out of the minibuffer. This means, in effect, that it exits the minibuffer and then quits. (Simply quitting would return to the command loop *within* the minibuffer.) The reason why `C-g` does not quit directly when the command reader is reading input is so that its meaning can be redefined in the minibuffer in this way. `C-g` following a prefix key is not redefined in the minibuffer, and it has its normal effect of canceling the prefix key and prefix argument. This too would not be possible if `C-g` always quit directly.

When `C-g` does directly quit, it does so by setting the variable `quit-flag` to `t`. Emacs checks this variable at appropriate times and quits if it is not `nil`. Setting `quit-flag` non-`nil` in any way thus causes a quit.

At the level of C code, quitting cannot happen just anywhere; only at the special places that check `quit-flag`. The reason for this is that quitting at other places might leave an inconsistency in Emacs’s internal state. Because quitting is delayed until a safe place, quitting cannot make Emacs crash.

Certain functions such as `read-key-sequence` or `read-quoted-char` prevent quitting entirely even though they wait for input. Instead of quitting, `C-g` serves as the requested input. In the case of `read-key-sequence`, this serves to bring about the special behavior of `C-g` in the command loop. In the case of `read-quoted-char`, this is so that `C-q` can be used to quote a `C-g`.

You can prevent quitting for a portion of a Lisp function by binding the variable `inhibit-quit` to a non-`nil` value. Then, although `C-g` still sets `quit-flag` to `t` as usual, the usual result of this—a quit—is prevented. Eventually, `inhibit-quit` will become `nil` again, such as when its binding is unwound at the end of a `let` form. At that time, if `quit-flag` is still non-`nil`, the requested quit happens immediately. This behavior is ideal when you wish to make sure that quitting does not happen within a critical section of the program.

In some functions (such as `read-quoted-char`), `C-g` is handled in a special way that does not involve quitting. This is done by reading the input with `inhibit-quit` bound to `t`, and setting `quit-flag` to `nil` before `inhibit-quit` becomes `nil` again. This excerpt from the definition of `read-quoted-char` shows how this is done; it also shows that normal quitting is permitted after the first character of input.

```lisp
(defun read-quoted-char (&optional prompt)
  "…documentation…"
  (let ((message-log-max nil) done (first t) (code 0) char)
    (while (not done)
      (let ((inhibit-quit first)
            …)
        (and prompt (message "%s-" prompt))
        (setq char (read-event))
        (if inhibit-quit (setq quit-flag nil)))
      …set the variable code…)
    code))
```

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **quit-flag**

If this variable is non-`nil`, then Emacs quits immediately, unless `inhibit-quit` is non-`nil`. Typing `C-g` ordinarily sets `quit-flag` non-`nil`, regardless of `inhibit-quit`.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **inhibit-quit**

This variable determines whether Emacs should quit when `quit-flag` is set to a value other than `nil`. If `inhibit-quit` is non-`nil`, then `quit-flag` has no special effect.

### <span className="tag macro">`macro`</span> **with-local-quit** *body…*

This macro executes `body` forms in sequence, but allows quitting, at least locally, within `body` even if `inhibit-quit` was non-`nil` outside this construct. It returns the value of the last form in `body`, unless exited by quitting, in which case it returns `nil`.

If `inhibit-quit` is `nil` on entry to `with-local-quit`, it only executes the `body`, and setting `quit-flag` causes a normal quit. However, if `inhibit-quit` is non-`nil` so that ordinary quitting is delayed, a non-`nil` `quit-flag` triggers a special kind of local quit. This ends the execution of `body` and exits the `with-local-quit` body with `quit-flag` still non-`nil`, so that another (ordinary) quit will happen as soon as that is allowed. If `quit-flag` is already non-`nil` at the beginning of `body`, the local quit happens immediately and the body doesn’t execute at all.

This macro is mainly useful in functions that can be called from timers, process filters, process sentinels, `pre-command-hook`, `post-command-hook`, and other places where `inhibit-quit` is normally bound to `t`.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **keyboard-quit**

This function signals the `quit` condition with `(signal 'quit nil)`. This is the same thing that quitting does. (See `signal` in [Errors](Errors).)

You can specify a character other than `C-g` to use for quitting. See the function `set-input-mode` in [Input Modes](Input-Modes).
