---
slug: Command-History
---

The command loop keeps a history of the complex commands that have been executed, to make it convenient to repeat these commands. A *complex command* is one for which the interactive argument reading uses the minibuffer. This includes any `M-x` command, any `M-:` command, and any command whose `interactive` specification reads an argument from the minibuffer. Explicit use of the minibuffer during the execution of the command itself does not cause the command to be considered complex.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **command-history**

This variable’s value is a list of recent complex commands, each represented as a form to evaluate. It continues to accumulate all complex commands for the duration of the editing session, but when it reaches the maximum size (see [Minibuffer History](/docs/elisp/Minibuffer-History)), the oldest elements are deleted as new ones are added.

```lisp
command-history
⇒ ((switch-to-buffer "chistory.texi")
    (describe-key "^X^[")
    (visit-tags-table "~/emacs/src/")
    (find-tag "repeat-complex-command"))
```

This history list is actually a special case of minibuffer history (see [Minibuffer History](/docs/elisp/Minibuffer-History)), with one special twist: the elements are expressions rather than strings.

There are a number of commands devoted to the editing and recall of previous commands. The commands `repeat-complex-command`, and `list-command-history` are described in the user manual (see [Repetition](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/emacs.html#Repetition) in The GNU Emacs Manual). Within the minibuffer, the usual minibuffer history commands are available.
