---
slug: Event-Mod
---

Emacs modifies every event it reads according to `extra-keyboard-modifiers`, then translates it through `keyboard-translate-table` (if applicable), before returning it from `read-event`.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **extra-keyboard-modifiers**

This variable lets Lisp programs “press" the modifier keys on the keyboard. The value is a character. Only the modifiers of the character matter. Each time the user types a keyboard key, it is altered as if those modifier keys were held down. For instance, if you bind `extra-keyboard-modifiers` to `?\C-\M-a`, then all keyboard input characters typed during the scope of the binding will have the control and meta modifiers applied to them. The character `?\C-@`, equivalent to the integer 0, does not count as a control character for this purpose, but as a character with no modifiers. Thus, setting `extra-keyboard-modifiers` to zero cancels any modification.

When using a window system, the program can press any of the modifier keys in this way. Otherwise, only the `CTL` and `META` keys can be virtually pressed.

Note that this variable applies only to events that really come from the keyboard, and has no effect on mouse events or any other events.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **keyboard-translate-table**

This terminal-local variable is the translate table for keyboard characters. It lets you reshuffle the keys on the keyboard without changing any command bindings. Its value is normally a char-table, or else `nil`. (It can also be a string or vector, but this is considered obsolete.)

If `keyboard-translate-table` is a char-table (see [Char-Tables](/docs/elisp/Char_002dTables)), then each character read from the keyboard is looked up in this char-table. If the value found there is non-`nil`, then it is used instead of the actual input character.

Note that this translation is the first thing that happens to a character after it is read from the terminal. Record-keeping features such as `recent-keys` and dribble files record the characters after translation.

Note also that this translation is done before the characters are supplied to input methods (see [Input Methods](/docs/elisp/Input-Methods)). Use `translation-table-for-input` (see [Translation of Characters](/docs/elisp/Translation-of-Characters)), if you want to translate characters after input methods operate.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **keyboard-translate** *from to*

This function modifies `keyboard-translate-table` to translate character code `from` into character code `to`. It creates the keyboard translate table if necessary.

Here’s an example of using the `keyboard-translate-table` to make `C-x`, `C-c` and `C-v` perform the cut, copy and paste operations:

```lisp
(keyboard-translate ?\C-x 'control-x)
(keyboard-translate ?\C-c 'control-c)
(keyboard-translate ?\C-v 'control-v)
(global-set-key [control-x] 'kill-region)
(global-set-key [control-c] 'kill-ring-save)
(global-set-key [control-v] 'yank)
```

On a graphical terminal that supports extended ASCII input, you can still get the standard Emacs meanings of one of those characters by typing it with the shift key. That makes it a different character as far as keyboard translation is concerned, but it has the same usual meaning.

See [Translation Keymaps](/docs/elisp/Translation-Keymaps), for mechanisms that translate event sequences at the level of `read-key-sequence`.
