---
slug: Inheritance-and-Keymaps
---

A keymap can inherit the bindings of another keymap, which we call the *parent keymap*. Such a keymap looks like this:

```lisp
(keymap elements… . parent-keymap)
```

The effect is that this keymap inherits all the bindings of `parent-keymap`, whatever they may be at the time a key is looked up, but can add to them or override them with `elements`.

If you change the bindings in `parent-keymap` using `define-key` or other key-binding functions, these changed bindings are visible in the inheriting keymap, unless shadowed by the bindings made by `elements`. The converse is not true: if you use `define-key` to change bindings in the inheriting keymap, these changes are recorded in `elements`, but have no effect on `parent-keymap`.

The proper way to construct a keymap with a parent is to use `set-keymap-parent`; if you have code that directly constructs a keymap with a parent, please convert the program to use `set-keymap-parent` instead.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **keymap-parent** *keymap*

This returns the parent keymap of `keymap`. If `keymap` has no parent, `keymap-parent` returns `nil`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **set-keymap-parent** *keymap parent*

This sets the parent keymap of `keymap` to `parent`, and returns `parent`. If `parent` is `nil`, this function gives `keymap` no parent at all.

If `keymap` has submaps (bindings for prefix keys), they too receive new parent keymaps that reflect what `parent` specifies for those prefix keys.

Here is an example showing how to make a keymap that inherits from `text-mode-map`:

```lisp
(let ((map (make-sparse-keymap)))
  (set-keymap-parent map text-mode-map)
  map)
```

A non-sparse keymap can have a parent too, but this is not very useful. A non-sparse keymap always specifies something as the binding for every numeric character code without modifier bits, even if it is `nil`, so these character’s bindings are never inherited from the parent keymap.

Sometimes you want to make a keymap that inherits from more than one map. You can use the function `make-composed-keymap` for this.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **make-composed-keymap** *maps \&optional parent*

This function returns a new keymap composed of the existing keymap(s) `maps`, and optionally inheriting from a parent keymap `parent`. `maps` can be a single keymap or a list of more than one. When looking up a key in the resulting new map, Emacs searches in each of the `maps` in turn, and then in `parent`, stopping at the first match. A `nil` binding in any one of `maps` overrides any binding in `parent`, but it does not override any non-`nil` binding in any other of the `maps`.

For example, here is how Emacs sets the parent of `help-mode-map`, such that it inherits from both `button-buffer-map` and `special-mode-map`:

```lisp
(defvar help-mode-map
  (let ((map (make-sparse-keymap)))
    (set-keymap-parent map
      (make-composed-keymap button-buffer-map special-mode-map))
    ... map) ... )
```
