---
slug: Running-Hooks
---

In this section, we document the `run-hooks` function, which is used to run a normal hook. We also document the functions for running various kinds of abnormal hooks.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **run-hooks** *\&rest hookvars*

This function takes one or more normal hook variable names as arguments, and runs each hook in turn. Each argument should be a symbol that is a normal hook variable. These arguments are processed in the order specified.

If a hook variable has a non-`nil` value, that value should be a list of functions. `run-hooks` calls all the functions, one by one, with no arguments.

The hook variable’s value can also be a single function—either a lambda expression or a symbol with a function definition—which `run-hooks` calls. But this usage is obsolete.

If the hook variable is buffer-local, the buffer-local variable will be used instead of the global variable. However, if the buffer-local variable contains the element `t`, the global hook variable will be run as well.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **run-hook-with-args** *hook \&rest args*

This function runs an abnormal hook by calling all the hook functions in `hook`, passing each one the arguments `args`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **run-hook-with-args-until-failure** *hook \&rest args*

This function runs an abnormal hook by calling each hook function in turn, stopping if one of them fails by returning `nil`. Each hook function is passed the arguments `args`. If this function stops because one of the hook functions fails, it returns `nil`; otherwise it returns a non-`nil` value.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **run-hook-with-args-until-success** *hook \&rest args*

This function runs an abnormal hook by calling each hook function, stopping if one of them succeeds by returning a non-`nil` value. Each hook function is passed the arguments `args`. If this function stops because one of the hook functions returns a non-`nil` value, it returns that value; otherwise it returns `nil`.
