---
slug: g_t_0025_002dConstructs
---

Strings used as mode line constructs can use certain `%`-constructs to substitute various kinds of data. The following is a list of the defined `%`-constructs, and what they mean.

In any construct except ‘`%%`’, you can add a decimal integer after the ‘`%`’ to specify a minimum field width. If the width is less, the field is padded to that width. Purely numeric constructs (‘`c`’, ‘`i`’, ‘`I`’, and ‘`l`’) are padded by inserting spaces to the left, and others are padded by inserting spaces to the right.

### `%b`

The current buffer name, obtained with the `buffer-name` function. See [Buffer Names](Buffer-Names).

### `%c`

The current column number of point, counting from zero starting at the left margin of the window.

### `%C`

The current column number of point, counting from one starting at the left margin of the window.

### `%e`

When Emacs is nearly out of memory for Lisp objects, a brief message saying so. Otherwise, this is empty.

### `%f`

The visited file name, obtained with the `buffer-file-name` function. See [Buffer File Name](Buffer-File-Name).

### `%F`

The title (only on a window system) or the name of the selected frame. See [Basic Parameters](Basic-Parameters).

### `%i`

The size of the accessible part of the current buffer; basically `(- (point-max) (point-min))`.

### `%I`

Like ‘`%i`’, but the size is printed in a more readable way by using ‘`k`’ for 10^3, ‘`M`’ for 10^6, ‘`G`’ for 10^9, etc., to abbreviate.

### `%l`

The current line number of point, counting within the accessible portion of the buffer.

### `%n`

‘`Narrow`’ when narrowing is in effect; nothing otherwise (see `narrow-to-region` in [Narrowing](Narrowing)).

### `%o`

The degree of *travel* of the window through (the visible portion of) the buffer, i.e. the size of the text above the top of the window expressed as a percentage of all the text outside the window, or ‘`Top`’, ‘`Bottom`’ or ‘`All`’.

### `%p`

The percentage of the buffer text above the **top** of window, or ‘`Top`’, ‘`Bottom`’ or ‘`All`’. Note that the default mode line construct truncates this to three characters.

### `%P`

The percentage of the buffer text that is above the **bottom** of the window (which includes the text visible in the window, as well as the text above the top), plus ‘`Top`’ if the top of the buffer is visible on screen; or ‘`Bottom`’ or ‘`All`’.

### `%q`

The percentages of text above both the **top** and the **bottom** of the window, separated by ‘`-`’, or ‘`All`’.

### `%s`

The status of the subprocess belonging to the current buffer, obtained with `process-status`. See [Process Information](Process-Information).

### `%z`

The mnemonics of keyboard, terminal, and buffer coding systems.

### `%Z`

Like ‘`%z`’, but including the end-of-line format.

### `%*`

‘`%`’ if the buffer is read only (see `buffer-read-only`);\
‘`*`’ if the buffer is modified (see `buffer-modified-p`);\
‘`-`’ otherwise. See [Buffer Modification](Buffer-Modification).

### `%+`

‘`*`’ if the buffer is modified (see `buffer-modified-p`);\
‘`%`’ if the buffer is read only (see `buffer-read-only`);\
‘`-`’ otherwise. This differs from ‘`%*`’ only for a modified read-only buffer. See [Buffer Modification](Buffer-Modification).

### `%&`

‘`*`’ if the buffer is modified, and ‘`-`’ otherwise.

### `%@`

‘`@`’ if the buffer’s `default-directory` (see [File Name Expansion](File-Name-Expansion)) is on a remote machine, and ‘`-`’ otherwise.

### `%[`

An indication of the depth of recursive editing levels (not counting minibuffer levels): one ‘`[`’ for each editing level. See [Recursive Editing](Recursive-Editing).

### `%]`

One ‘`]`’ for each recursive editing level (not counting minibuffer levels).

### `%-`

Dashes sufficient to fill the remainder of the mode line.

### `%%`

The character ‘`%`’—this is how to include a literal ‘`%`’ in a string in which `%`-constructs are allowed.

The following `%`-construct is still supported, but it is obsolete, since you can get the same result using the variable `mode-name`.

### `%m`

The value of `mode-name`.
