---
slug: Imenu
---

*Imenu* is a feature that lets users select a definition or section in the buffer, from a menu which lists all of them, to go directly to that location in the buffer. Imenu works by constructing a buffer index which lists the names and buffer positions of the definitions, or other named portions of the buffer; then the user can choose one of them and move point to it. Major modes can add a menu bar item to use Imenu using `imenu-add-to-menubar`.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **imenu-add-to-menubar** *name*

This function defines a local menu bar item named `name` to run Imenu.

The user-level commands for using Imenu are described in the Emacs Manual (see [Imenu](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/emacs.html#Imenu) in the Emacs Manual). This section explains how to customize Imenu’s method of finding definitions or buffer portions for a particular major mode.

The usual and simplest way is to set the variable `imenu-generic-expression`:

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **imenu-generic-expression**

This variable, if non-`nil`, is a list that specifies regular expressions for finding definitions for Imenu. Simple elements of `imenu-generic-expression` look like this:

```lisp
(menu-title regexp index)
```

Here, if `menu-title` is non-`nil`, it says that the matches for this element should go in a submenu of the buffer index; `menu-title` itself specifies the name for the submenu. If `menu-title` is `nil`, the matches for this element go directly in the top level of the buffer index.

The second item in the list, `regexp`, is a regular expression (see [Regular Expressions](Regular-Expressions)); anything in the buffer that it matches is considered a definition, something to mention in the buffer index. The third item, `index`, is a non-negative integer that indicates which subexpression in `regexp` matches the definition’s name.

An element can also look like this:

```lisp
(menu-title regexp index function arguments…)
```

Each match for this element creates an index item, and when the index item is selected by the user, it calls `function` with arguments consisting of the item name, the buffer position, and `arguments`.

For Emacs Lisp mode, `imenu-generic-expression` could look like this:

```lisp
((nil "^\\s-*(def\\(un\\|subst\\|macro\\|advice\\)\
\\s-+\\([-A-Za-z0-9+]+\\)" 2)
```

```lisp
 ("*Vars*" "^\\s-*(def\\(var\\|const\\)\
\\s-+\\([-A-Za-z0-9+]+\\)" 2)
```

```lisp
 ("*Types*"
  "^\\s-*\
(def\\(type\\|struct\\|class\\|ine-condition\\)\
\\s-+\\([-A-Za-z0-9+]+\\)" 2))
```

Setting this variable makes it buffer-local in the current buffer.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **imenu-case-fold-search**

This variable controls whether matching against the regular expressions in the value of `imenu-generic-expression` is case-sensitive: `t`, the default, means matching should ignore case.

Setting this variable makes it buffer-local in the current buffer.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **imenu-syntax-alist**

This variable is an alist of syntax table modifiers to use while processing `imenu-generic-expression`, to override the syntax table of the current buffer. Each element should have this form:

```lisp
(characters . syntax-description)
```

The CAR, `characters`, can be either a character or a string. The element says to give that character or characters the syntax specified by `syntax-description`, which is passed to `modify-syntax-entry` (see [Syntax Table Functions](Syntax-Table-Functions)).

This feature is typically used to give word syntax to characters which normally have symbol syntax, and thus to simplify `imenu-generic-expression` and speed up matching. For example, Fortran mode uses it this way:

```lisp
(setq imenu-syntax-alist '(("_$" . "w")))
```

The `imenu-generic-expression` regular expressions can then use ‘`\\sw+`’ instead of ‘`\\(\\sw\\|\\s_\\)+`’. Note that this technique may be inconvenient when the mode needs to limit the initial character of a name to a smaller set of characters than are allowed in the rest of a name.

Setting this variable makes it buffer-local in the current buffer.

Another way to customize Imenu for a major mode is to set the variables `imenu-prev-index-position-function` and `imenu-extract-index-name-function`:

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **imenu-prev-index-position-function**

If this variable is non-`nil`, its value should be a function that finds the next definition to put in the buffer index, scanning backward in the buffer from point. It should return `nil` if it doesn’t find another definition before point. Otherwise it should leave point at the place it finds a definition and return any non-`nil` value.

Setting this variable makes it buffer-local in the current buffer.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **imenu-extract-index-name-function**

If this variable is non-`nil`, its value should be a function to return the name for a definition, assuming point is in that definition as the `imenu-prev-index-position-function` function would leave it.

Setting this variable makes it buffer-local in the current buffer.

The last way to customize Imenu for a major mode is to set the variable `imenu-create-index-function`:

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **imenu-create-index-function**

This variable specifies the function to use for creating a buffer index. The function should take no arguments, and return an index alist for the current buffer. It is called within `save-excursion`, so where it leaves point makes no difference.

The index alist can have three types of elements. Simple elements look like this:

```lisp
(index-name . index-position)
```

Selecting a simple element has the effect of moving to position `index-position` in the buffer. Special elements look like this:

```lisp
(index-name index-position function arguments…)
```

Selecting a special element performs:

```lisp
(funcall function
         index-name index-position arguments…)
```

A nested sub-alist element looks like this:

```lisp
(menu-title . sub-alist)
```

It creates the submenu `menu-title` specified by `sub-alist`.

The default value of `imenu-create-index-function` is `imenu-default-create-index-function`. This function calls the value of `imenu-prev-index-position-function` and the value of `imenu-extract-index-name-function` to produce the index alist. However, if either of these two variables is `nil`, the default function uses `imenu-generic-expression` instead.

Setting this variable makes it buffer-local in the current buffer.
