---
slug: Syntactic-Font-Lock
---

Syntactic fontification uses a syntax table (see [Syntax Tables](Syntax-Tables)) to find and highlight syntactically relevant text. If enabled, it runs prior to search-based fontification. The variable `font-lock-syntactic-face-function`, documented below, determines which syntactic constructs to highlight. There are several variables that affect syntactic fontification; you should set them by means of `font-lock-defaults` (see [Font Lock Basics](Font-Lock-Basics)).

Whenever Font Lock mode performs syntactic fontification on a stretch of text, it first calls the function specified by `syntax-propertize-function`. Major modes can use this to apply `syntax-table` text properties to override the buffer’s syntax table in special cases. See [Syntax Properties](Syntax-Properties).

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **font-lock-keywords-only**

If the value of this variable is non-`nil`, Font Lock does not do syntactic fontification, only search-based fontification based on `font-lock-keywords`. It is normally set by Font Lock mode based on the `keywords-only` element in `font-lock-defaults`. If the value is `nil`, Font Lock will call `jit-lock-register` (see [Other Font Lock Variables](Other-Font-Lock-Variables)) to set up for automatic refontification of buffer text following a modified line to reflect the new syntactic context due to the change.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **font-lock-syntax-table**

This variable holds the syntax table to use for fontification of comments and strings. It is normally set by Font Lock mode based on the `syntax-alist` element in `font-lock-defaults`. If this value is `nil`, syntactic fontification uses the buffer’s syntax table (the value returned by the function `syntax-table`; see [Syntax Table Functions](Syntax-Table-Functions)).

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **font-lock-syntactic-face-function**

If this variable is non-`nil`, it should be a function to determine which face to use for a given syntactic element (a string or a comment).

The function is called with one argument, the parse state at point returned by `parse-partial-sexp`, and should return a face. The default value returns `font-lock-comment-face` for comments and `font-lock-string-face` for strings (see [Faces for Font Lock](Faces-for-Font-Lock)).

This variable is normally set through the “other" elements in `font-lock-defaults`:

```lisp
(setq-local font-lock-defaults
            `(,python-font-lock-keywords
              nil nil nil nil
              (font-lock-syntactic-face-function
               . python-font-lock-syntactic-face-function)))
```
