---
slug: Text-Quoting-Style
---

Typically, grave accents and apostrophes are treated specially in documentation strings and diagnostic messages, and translate to matching single quotation marks (also called “curved quotes"). For example, the documentation string ``"Alias for `foo'."`` and the function call ``(message "Alias for `foo'.")`` both translate to `"Alias for ‘foo’."`. Less commonly, Emacs displays grave accents and apostrophes as themselves, or as apostrophes only (e.g., `"Alias for 'foo'."`). Documentation strings and message formats should be written so that they display well with any of these styles. For example, the documentation string `"Alias for 'foo'."` is probably not what you want, as it can display as `"Alias for ’foo’."`, an unusual style in English.

Sometimes you may need to display a grave accent or apostrophe without translation, regardless of text quoting style. In a documentation string, you can do this with escapes. For example, in the documentation string ``"\\=`(a ,(sin 0)) ==> (a 0.0)"`` the grave accent is intended to denote Lisp code, so it is escaped and displays as itself regardless of quoting style. In a call to `message` or `error`, you can avoid translation by using a format `"%s"` with an argument that is a call to `format`. For example, ``(message "%s" (format "`(a ,(sin %S)) ==> (a %S)" x (sin x)))`` displays a message that starts with grave accent regardless of text quoting style.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **text-quoting-style**

The value of this user option is a symbol that specifies the style Emacs should use for single quotes in the wording of help and messages. If the option’s value is `curve`, the style is `‘like this’` with curved single quotes. If the value is `straight`, the style is `'like this'` with straight apostrophes. If the value is `grave`, quotes are not translated and the style is `` `like this' `` with grave accent and apostrophe, the standard style before Emacs version 25. The default value `nil` acts like `curve` if curved single quotes seem to be displayable, and like `grave` otherwise.

This option is useful on platforms that have problems with curved quotes. You can customize it freely according to your personal preference.
