---
slug: Locating-Files
---

This section explains how to search for a file in a list of directories (a *path*), or for an executable file in the standard list of executable file directories.

To search for a user-specific configuration file, See [Standard File Names](Standard-File-Names), for the `locate-user-emacs-file` function.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **locate-file** *filename path \&optional suffixes predicate*

This function searches for a file whose name is `filename` in a list of directories given by `path`, trying the suffixes in `suffixes`. If it finds such a file, it returns the file’s absolute file name (see [Relative File Names](Relative-File-Names)); otherwise it returns `nil`.

The optional argument `suffixes` gives the list of file-name suffixes to append to `filename` when searching. `locate-file` tries each possible directory with each of these suffixes. If `suffixes` is `nil`, or `("")`, then there are no suffixes, and `filename` is used only as-is. Typical values of `suffixes` are `exec-suffixes` (see [Subprocess Creation](Subprocess-Creation)), `load-suffixes`, `load-file-rep-suffixes` and the return value of the function `get-load-suffixes` (see [Load Suffixes](Load-Suffixes)).

Typical values for `path` are `exec-path` (see [Subprocess Creation](Subprocess-Creation)) when looking for executable programs, or `load-path` (see [Library Search](Library-Search)) when looking for Lisp files. If `filename` is absolute, `path` has no effect, but the suffixes in `suffixes` are still tried.

The optional argument `predicate`, if non-`nil`, specifies a predicate function for testing whether a candidate file is suitable. The predicate is passed the candidate file name as its single argument. If `predicate` is `nil` or omitted, `locate-file` uses `file-readable-p` as the predicate. See [Kinds of Files](Kinds-of-Files), for other useful predicates, e.g., `file-executable-p` and `file-directory-p`.

This function will normally skip directories, so if you want it to find directories, make sure the `predicate` function returns `dir-ok` for them. For example:

```lisp
(locate-file "html" '("/var/www" "/srv") nil
             (lambda (f) (if (file-directory-p f) 'dir-ok)))
```

For compatibility, `predicate` can also be one of the symbols `executable`, `readable`, `writable`, `exists`, or a list of one or more of these symbols.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **executable-find** *program \&optional remote*

This function searches for the executable file of the named `program` and returns the absolute file name of the executable, including its file-name extensions, if any. It returns `nil` if the file is not found. The function searches in all the directories in `exec-path`, and tries all the file-name extensions in `exec-suffixes` (see [Subprocess Creation](Subprocess-Creation)).

If `remote` is non-`nil`, and `default-directory` is a remote directory, `program` is searched on the respective remote host.
