---
slug: Relative-File-Names
---

All the directories in the file system form a tree starting at the root directory. A file name can specify all the directory names starting from the root of the tree; then it is called an *absolute* file name. Or it can specify the position of the file in the tree relative to a default directory; then it is called a *relative* file name. On GNU and other POSIX-like systems, after any leading ‘`~`’ has been expanded, an absolute file name starts with a ‘`/`’ (see [abbreviate-file-name](/docs/elisp/abbreviate_002dfile_002dname)), and a relative one does not. On MS-DOS and MS-Windows, an absolute file name starts with a slash or a backslash, or with a drive specification ‘`x:/`’, where `x` is the *drive letter*.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **file-name-absolute-p** *filename*

This function returns `t` if file `filename` is an absolute file name, `nil` otherwise. A file name is considered to be absolute if its first component is ‘`~`’, or is ‘`~user`’ where `user` is a valid login name. In the following examples, assume that there is a user named ‘`rms`’ but no user named ‘`nosuchuser`’.

```lisp
(file-name-absolute-p "~rms/foo")
     ⇒ t
```

```lisp
(file-name-absolute-p "~nosuchuser/foo")
     ⇒ nil
```

```lisp
(file-name-absolute-p "rms/foo")
     ⇒ nil
```

```lisp
(file-name-absolute-p "/user/rms/foo")
     ⇒ t
```

Given a possibly relative file name, you can expand any leading ‘`~`’ and convert the result to an absolute name using `expand-file-name` (see [File Name Expansion](/docs/elisp/File-Name-Expansion)). This function converts absolute file names to relative names:

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **file-relative-name** *filename \&optional directory*

This function tries to return a relative name that is equivalent to `filename`, assuming the result will be interpreted relative to `directory` (an absolute directory name or directory file name). If `directory` is omitted or `nil`, it defaults to the current buffer’s default directory.

On some operating systems, an absolute file name begins with a device name. On such systems, `filename` has no relative equivalent based on `directory` if they start with two different device names. In this case, `file-relative-name` returns `filename` in absolute form.

```lisp
(file-relative-name "/foo/bar" "/foo/")
     ⇒ "bar"
(file-relative-name "/foo/bar" "/hack/")
     ⇒ "../foo/bar"
```
