---
slug: Window-Point
---

Each window has its own value of point (see [Point](Point)), independent of the value of point in other windows displaying the same buffer. This makes it useful to have multiple windows showing one buffer.

*   The window point is established when a window is first created; it is initialized from the buffer’s point, or from the window point of another window opened on the buffer if such a window exists.
*   Selecting a window sets the value of point in its buffer from the window’s value of point. Conversely, deselecting a window sets the window’s value of point from that of the buffer. Thus, when you switch between windows that display a given buffer, the point value for the selected window is in effect in the buffer, while the point values for the other windows are stored in those windows.
*   As long as the selected window displays the current buffer, the window’s point and the buffer’s point always move together; they remain equal.

Emacs displays the cursor, by default as a rectangular block, in each window at the position of that window’s point. When the user switches to another buffer in a window, Emacs moves that window’s cursor to where point is in that buffer. If the exact position of point is hidden behind some display element, such as a display string or an image, Emacs displays the cursor immediately before or after that display element.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **window-point** *\&optional window*

This function returns the current position of point in `window`. For a nonselected window, this is the value point would have (in that window’s buffer) if that window were selected. The default for `window` is the selected window.

When `window` is the selected window, the value returned is the value of point in that window’s buffer. Strictly speaking, it would be more correct to return the top-level value of point, outside of any `save-excursion` forms. But that value is hard to find.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **set-window-point** *window position*

This function positions point in `window` at position `position` in `window`’s buffer. It returns `position`.

If `window` is selected, this simply does `goto-char` in `window`’s buffer.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **window-point-insertion-type**

This variable specifies the marker insertion type (see [Marker Insertion Types](Marker-Insertion-Types)) of `window-point`. The default is `nil`, so `window-point` will stay behind text inserted there.
