---
slug: Frame-Position
---

On graphical systems, the position of a normal top-level frame is specified as the absolute position of its outer frame (see [Frame Geometry](Frame-Geometry)). The position of a child frame (see [Child Frames](Child-Frames)) is specified via pixel offsets of its outer edges relative to the native position of its parent frame.

You can access or change the position of a frame using the frame parameters `left` and `top` (see [Position Parameters](Position-Parameters)). Here are two additional functions for working with the positions of an existing, visible frame. For both functions, the argument `frame` must denote a live frame and defaults to the selected frame.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **frame-position** *\&optional frame*

For a normal, non-child frame this function returns a cons of the pixel coordinates of its outer position (see [Frame Layout](Frame-Layout)) with respect to the origin `(0, 0)` of its display. For a child frame (see [Child Frames](Child-Frames)) this function returns the pixel coordinates of its outer position with respect to an origin `(0, 0)` at the native position of `frame`’s parent.

Negative values never indicate an offset from the right or bottom edge of `frame`’s display or parent frame. Rather, they mean that `frame`’s outer position is on the left and/or above the origin of its display or the native position of its parent frame. This usually means that `frame` is only partially visible (or completely invisible). However, on systems where the display’s origin does not coincide with its top-left corner, the frame may be visible on a secondary monitor.

On a text terminal frame both values are zero.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **set-frame-position** *frame x y*

This function sets the outer frame position of `frame` to (`x`, `y`). The latter arguments specify pixels and normally count from the origin at the position (0, 0) of `frame`’s display. For child frames, they count from the native position of `frame`’s parent frame.

Negative parameter values position the right edge of the outer frame by `-x` pixels left from the right edge of the screen (or the parent frame’s native rectangle) and the bottom edge by `-y` pixels up from the bottom edge of the screen (or the parent frame’s native rectangle).

Note that negative values do not permit to align the right or bottom edge of `frame` exactly at the right or bottom edge of its display or parent frame. Neither do they allow to specify a position that does not lie within the edges of the display or parent frame. The frame parameters `left` and `top` (see [Position Parameters](Position-Parameters)) allow to do that, but may still fail to provide good results for the initial or a new frame.

This function has no effect on text terminal frames.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **move-frame-functions**

This hook specifies the functions that are run when an Emacs frame is moved (assigned a new position) by the window-system or window manager. The functions are run with one argument, the frame that moved. For a child frame (see [Child Frames](Child-Frames)), the functions are run only when the position of the frame changes in relation to that of its parent frame.
