---
slug: Parameter-Access
---

These functions let you read and change the parameter values of a frame.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **frame-parameter** *frame parameter*

This function returns the value of the parameter `parameter` (a symbol) of `frame`. If `frame` is `nil`, it returns the selected frame’s parameter. If `frame` has no setting for `parameter`, this function returns `nil`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **frame-parameters** *\&optional frame*

The function `frame-parameters` returns an alist listing all the parameters of `frame` and their values. If `frame` is `nil` or omitted, this returns the selected frame’s parameters

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **modify-frame-parameters** *frame alist*

This function alters the frame `frame` based on the elements of `alist`. Each element of `alist` has the form `(parm . value)`, where `parm` is a symbol naming a parameter. If you don’t mention a parameter in `alist`, its value doesn’t change. If `frame` is `nil`, it defaults to the selected frame.

Some parameters are only meaningful for frames on certain kinds of display (see [Frames](/docs/elisp/Frames)). If `alist` includes parameters that are not meaningful for the `frame`’s display, this function will change its value in the frame’s parameter list, but will otherwise ignore it.

When `alist` specifies more than one parameter whose value can affect the new size of `frame`, the final size of the frame may differ according to the toolkit used. For example, specifying that a frame should from now on have a menu and/or tool bar instead of none and simultaneously specifying the new height of the frame will inevitably lead to a recalculation of the frame’s height. Conceptually, in such case, this function will try to have the explicit height specification prevail. It cannot be excluded, however, that the addition (or removal) of the menu or tool bar, when eventually performed by the toolkit, will defeat this intention.

Sometimes, binding `frame-inhibit-implied-resize` (see [Implied Frame Resizing](/docs/elisp/Implied-Frame-Resizing)) to a non-`nil` value around calls to this function may fix the problem sketched here. Sometimes, however, exactly such binding may be hit by the problem.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **set-frame-parameter** *frame parm value*

This function sets the frame parameter `parm` to the specified `value`. If `frame` is `nil`, it defaults to the selected frame.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **modify-all-frames-parameters** *alist*

This function alters the frame parameters of all existing frames according to `alist`, then modifies `default-frame-alist` (and, if necessary, `initial-frame-alist`) to apply the same parameter values to frames that will be created henceforth.
