---
slug: Window-Frame-Parameters
---

Just what parameters a frame has depends on what display mechanism it uses. This section describes the parameters that have special meanings on some or all kinds of terminals. Of these, `name`, `title`, `height`, `width`, `buffer-list` and `buffer-predicate` provide meaningful information in terminal frames, and `tty-color-mode` is meaningful only for frames on text terminals.

|                                                                            |    |                                                                   |
| :------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -- | :---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| • [Basic Parameters](/docs/elisp/Basic-Parameters)                         |    | Parameters that are fundamental.                                  |
| • [Position Parameters](/docs/elisp/Position-Parameters)                   |    | The position of the frame on the screen.                          |
| • [Size Parameters](/docs/elisp/Size-Parameters)                           |    | Frame’s size.                                                     |
| • [Layout Parameters](/docs/elisp/Layout-Parameters)                       |    | Size of parts of the frame, and enabling or disabling some parts. |
| • [Buffer Parameters](/docs/elisp/Buffer-Parameters)                       |    | Which buffers have been or should be shown.                       |
| • [Frame Interaction Parameters](/docs/elisp/Frame-Interaction-Parameters) |    | Parameters for interacting with other frames.                     |
| • [Mouse Dragging Parameters](/docs/elisp/Mouse-Dragging-Parameters)       |    | Parameters for resizing and moving frames with the mouse.         |
| • [Management Parameters](/docs/elisp/Management-Parameters)               |    | Communicating with the window manager.                            |
| • [Cursor Parameters](/docs/elisp/Cursor-Parameters)                       |    | Controlling the cursor appearance.                                |
| • [Font and Color Parameters](/docs/elisp/Font-and-Color-Parameters)       |    | Fonts and colors for the frame text.                              |
## 29.4.3.1 Basic Parameters

These frame parameters give the most basic information about the frame. `title` and `name` are meaningful on all terminals.

### `display`

The display on which to open this frame. It should be a string of the form ‘`host:dpy.screen`’, just like the `DISPLAY` environment variable. See [Multiple Terminals](/docs/elisp/Multiple-Terminals), for more details about display names.

### `display-type`

This parameter describes the range of possible colors that can be used in this frame. Its value is `color`, `grayscale` or `mono`.

### `title`

If a frame has a non-`nil` title, it appears in the window system’s title bar at the top of the frame, and also in the mode line of windows in that frame if `mode-line-frame-identification` uses ‘`%F`’ (see [%-Constructs](/docs/elisp/g_t_0025_002dConstructs)). This is normally the case when Emacs is not using a window system, and can only display one frame at a time. See [Frame Titles](/docs/elisp/Frame-Titles).

### `name`

The name of the frame. The frame name serves as a default for the frame title, if the `title` parameter is unspecified or `nil`. If you don’t specify a name, Emacs sets the frame name automatically (see [Frame Titles](/docs/elisp/Frame-Titles)).

If you specify the frame name explicitly when you create the frame, the name is also used (instead of the name of the Emacs executable) when looking up X resources for the frame.

### `explicit-name`

If the frame name was specified explicitly when the frame was created, this parameter will be that name. If the frame wasn’t explicitly named, this parameter will be `nil`.
## 29.4.3.2 Position Parameters

Parameters describing the X- and Y-offsets of a frame are always measured in pixels. For a normal, non-child frame they specify the frame’s outer position (see [Frame Geometry](/docs/elisp/Frame-Geometry)) relative to its display’s origin. For a child frame (see [Child Frames](/docs/elisp/Child-Frames)) they specify the frame’s outer position relative to the native position of the frame’s parent frame. (Note that none of these parameters is meaningful on TTY frames.)

### `left`

The position, in pixels, of the left outer edge of the frame with respect to the left edge of the frame’s display or parent frame. It can be specified in one of the following ways.

### an integer

A positive integer always relates the left edge of the frame to the left edge of its display or parent frame. A negative integer relates the right frame edge to the right edge of the display or parent frame.

### `(+ pos)`

This specifies the position of the left frame edge relative to the left edge of its display or parent frame. The integer `pos` may be positive or negative; a negative value specifies a position outside the screen or parent frame or on a monitor other than the primary one (for multi-monitor displays).

### `(- pos)`

This specifies the position of the right frame edge relative to the right edge of the display or parent frame. The integer `pos` may be positive or negative; a negative value specifies a position outside the screen or parent frame or on a monitor other than the primary one (for multi-monitor displays).

### a floating-point value

A floating-point value in the range 0.0 to 1.0 specifies the left edge’s offset via the *left position ratio* of the frame—the ratio of the left edge of its outer frame to the width of the frame’s workarea (see [Multiple Terminals](/docs/elisp/Multiple-Terminals)) or its parent’s native frame (see [Child Frames](/docs/elisp/Child-Frames)) minus the width of the outer frame. Thus, a left position ratio of 0.0 flushes a frame to the left, a ratio of 0.5 centers it and a ratio of 1.0 flushes it to the right of its display or parent frame. Similarly, the *top position ratio* of a frame is the ratio of the frame’s top position to the height of its workarea or parent frame minus the height of the frame.

Emacs will try to keep the position ratios of a child frame unaltered if that frame has a non-`nil` `keep-ratio` parameter (see [Frame Interaction Parameters](/docs/elisp/Frame-Interaction-Parameters)) and its parent frame is resized.

Since the outer size of a frame (see [Frame Geometry](/docs/elisp/Frame-Geometry)) is usually unavailable before a frame has been made visible, it is generally not advisable to use floating-point values when creating decorated frames. Floating-point values are more suited for ensuring that an (undecorated) child frame is positioned nicely within the area of its parent frame.

Some window managers ignore program-specified positions. If you want to be sure the position you specify is not ignored, specify a non-`nil` value for the `user-position` parameter as in the following example:

```lisp
(modify-frame-parameters
  nil '((user-position . t) (left . (+ -4))))
```

In general, it is not a good idea to position a frame relative to the right or bottom edge of its display. Positioning the initial or a new frame is either not accurate (because the size of the outer frame is not yet fully known before the frame has been made visible) or will cause additional flicker (if the frame has to be repositioned after becoming visible).

Note also, that positions specified relative to the right/bottom edge of a display, workarea or parent frame as well as floating-point offsets are stored internally as integer offsets relative to the left/top edge of the display, workarea or parent frame edge. They are also returned as such by functions like `frame-parameters` and restored as such by the desktop saving routines.

### `top`

The screen position of the top (or bottom) edge, in pixels, with respect to the top (or bottom) edge of the display or parent frame. It works just like `left`, except vertically instead of horizontally.

### `icon-left`

The screen position of the left edge of the frame’s icon, in pixels, counting from the left edge of the screen. This takes effect when the frame is iconified, if the window manager supports this feature. If you specify a value for this parameter, then you must also specify a value for `icon-top` and vice versa.

### `icon-top`

The screen position of the top edge of the frame’s icon, in pixels, counting from the top edge of the screen. This takes effect when the frame is iconified, if the window manager supports this feature.

### `user-position`

When you create a frame and specify its screen position with the `left` and `top` parameters, use this parameter to say whether the specified position was user-specified (explicitly requested in some way by a human user) or merely program-specified (chosen by a program). A non-`nil` value says the position was user-specified.

Window managers generally heed user-specified positions, and some heed program-specified positions too. But many ignore program-specified positions, placing the window in a default fashion or letting the user place it with the mouse. Some window managers, including `twm`, let the user specify whether to obey program-specified positions or ignore them.

When you call `make-frame`, you should specify a non-`nil` value for this parameter if the values of the `left` and `top` parameters represent the user’s stated preference; otherwise, use `nil`.

### `z-group`

This parameter specifies a relative position of the frame’s window-system window in the stacking (Z-) order of the frame’s display.

If this is `above`, the window-system will display the window that corresponds to the frame above all other window-system windows that do not have the `above` property set. If this is `nil`, the frame’s window is displayed below all windows that have the `above` property set and above all windows that have the `below` property set. If this is `below`, the frame’s window is displayed below all windows that do not have the `below` property set.

To position the frame above or below a specific other frame use the function `frame-restack` (see [Raising and Lowering](/docs/elisp/Raising-and-Lowering)).
## 29.4.3.3 Size Parameters

Frame parameters usually specify frame sizes in character units. On graphical displays, the `default` face determines the actual pixel sizes of these character units (see [Face Attributes](/docs/elisp/Face-Attributes)).

### `width`

This parameter specifies the width of the frame. It can be specified as in the following ways:

### an integer

A positive integer specifies the width of the frame’s text area (see [Frame Geometry](/docs/elisp/Frame-Geometry)) in characters.

### a cons cell

If this is a cons cell with the symbol `text-pixels` in its CAR, the CDR of that cell specifies the width of the frame’s text area in pixels.

### a floating-point value

A floating-point number between 0.0 and 1.0 can be used to specify the width of a frame via its *width ratio*—the ratio of its outer width (see [Frame Geometry](/docs/elisp/Frame-Geometry)) to the width of the frame’s workarea (see [Multiple Terminals](/docs/elisp/Multiple-Terminals)) or its parent frame’s (see [Child Frames](/docs/elisp/Child-Frames)) native frame. Thus, a value of 0.5 makes the frame occupy half of the width of its workarea or parent frame, a value of 1.0 the full width. Similarly, the *height ratio* of a frame is the ratio of its outer height to the height of its workarea or its parent’s native frame.

Emacs will try to keep the width and height ratio of a child frame unaltered if that frame has a non-`nil` `keep-ratio` parameter (see [Frame Interaction Parameters](/docs/elisp/Frame-Interaction-Parameters)) and its parent frame is resized.

Since the outer size of a frame is usually unavailable before a frame has been made visible, it is generally not advisable to use floating-point values when creating decorated frames. Floating-point values are more suited to ensure that a child frame always fits within the area of its parent frame as, for example, when customizing `display-buffer-alist` (see [Choosing Window](/docs/elisp/Choosing-Window)) via `display-buffer-in-child-frame`.

Regardless of how this parameter was specified, functions reporting the value of this parameter like `frame-parameters` always report the width of the frame’s text area in characters as an integer rounded, if necessary, to a multiple of the frame’s default character width. That value is also used by the desktop saving routines.

### `height`

This parameter specifies the height of the frame. It works just like `width`, except vertically instead of horizontally.

### `user-size`

This does for the size parameters `height` and `width` what the `user-position` parameter (see [user-position](/docs/elisp/Position-Parameters)) does for the position parameters `top` and `left`.

### `min-width`

This parameter specifies the minimum native width (see [Frame Geometry](/docs/elisp/Frame-Geometry)) of the frame, in characters. Normally, the functions that establish a frame’s initial width or resize a frame horizontally make sure that all the frame’s windows, vertical scroll bars, fringes, margins and vertical dividers can be displayed. This parameter, if non-`nil` allows to make a frame narrower than that with the consequence that any components that do not fit will be clipped by the window manager.

### `min-height`

This parameter specifies the minimum native height (see [Frame Geometry](/docs/elisp/Frame-Geometry)) of the frame, in characters. Normally, the functions that establish a frame’s initial size or resize a frame make sure that all the frame’s windows, horizontal scroll bars and dividers, mode and header lines, the echo area and the internal menu and tool bar can be displayed. This parameter, if non-`nil` allows to make a frame smaller than that with the consequence that any components that do not fit will be clipped by the window manager.

### `fullscreen`

This parameter specifies whether to maximize the frame’s width, height or both. Its value can be `fullwidth`, `fullheight`, `fullboth`, or `maximized`. A *fullwidth* frame is as wide as possible, a *fullheight* frame is as tall as possible, and a *fullboth* frame is both as wide and as tall as possible. A *maximized* frame is like a “fullboth" frame, except that it usually keeps its title bar and the buttons for resizing and closing the frame. Also, maximized frames typically avoid hiding any task bar or panels displayed on the desktop. A “fullboth" frame, on the other hand, usually omits the title bar and occupies the entire available screen space.

Full-height and full-width frames are more similar to maximized frames in this regard. However, these typically display an external border which might be absent with maximized frames. Hence the heights of maximized and full-height frames and the widths of maximized and full-width frames often differ by a few pixels.

With some window managers you may have to customize the variable `frame-resize-pixelwise` (see [Frame Size](/docs/elisp/Frame-Size)) in order to make a frame truly appear maximized or full-screen. Moreover, some window managers might not support smooth transition between the various full-screen or maximization states. Customizing the variable `x-frame-normalize-before-maximize` can help to overcome that.

Full-screen on macOS hides both the tool-bar and the menu-bar, however both will be displayed if the mouse pointer is moved to the top of the screen.

### `fullscreen-restore`

This parameter specifies the desired fullscreen state of the frame after invoking the `toggle-frame-fullscreen` command (see [Frame Commands](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/emacs.html#Frame-Commands) in The GNU Emacs Manual) in the “fullboth" state. Normally this parameter is installed automatically by that command when toggling the state to fullboth. If, however, you start Emacs in the “fullboth" state, you have to specify the desired behavior in your initial file as, for example

```lisp
(setq default-frame-alist
    '((fullscreen . fullboth)
      (fullscreen-restore . fullheight)))
```

This will give a new frame full height after typing in it `F11` for the first time.

### `fit-frame-to-buffer-margins`

This parameter allows to override the value of the option `fit-frame-to-buffer-margins` when fitting this frame to the buffer of its root window with `fit-frame-to-buffer` (see [Resizing Windows](/docs/elisp/Resizing-Windows)).

### `fit-frame-to-buffer-sizes`

This parameter allows to override the value of the option `fit-frame-to-buffer-sizes` when fitting this frame to the buffer of its root window with `fit-frame-to-buffer` (see [Resizing Windows](/docs/elisp/Resizing-Windows)).
## 29.4.3.4 Layout Parameters

These frame parameters enable or disable various parts of the frame, or control their sizes.

### `border-width`

The width in pixels of the frame’s outer border (see [Frame Geometry](/docs/elisp/Frame-Geometry)).

### `internal-border-width`

The width in pixels of the frame’s internal border (see [Frame Geometry](/docs/elisp/Frame-Geometry)).

### `vertical-scroll-bars`

Whether the frame has scroll bars (see [Scroll Bars](/docs/elisp/Scroll-Bars)) for vertical scrolling, and which side of the frame they should be on. The possible values are `left`, `right`, and `nil` for no scroll bars.

### `horizontal-scroll-bars`

Whether the frame has scroll bars for horizontal scrolling (`t` and `bottom` mean yes, `nil` means no).

### `scroll-bar-width`

The width of vertical scroll bars, in pixels, or `nil` meaning to use the default width.

### `scroll-bar-height`

The height of horizontal scroll bars, in pixels, or `nil` meaning to use the default height.

### `left-fringe`

### `right-fringe`

The default width of the left and right fringes of windows in this frame (see [Fringes](/docs/elisp/Fringes)). If either of these is zero, that effectively removes the corresponding fringe.

When you use `frame-parameter` to query the value of either of these two frame parameters, the return value is always an integer. When using `set-frame-parameter`, passing a `nil` value imposes an actual default value of 8 pixels.

### `right-divider-width`

The width (thickness) reserved for the right divider (see [Window Dividers](/docs/elisp/Window-Dividers)) of any window on the frame, in pixels. A value of zero means to not draw right dividers.

### `bottom-divider-width`

The width (thickness) reserved for the bottom divider (see [Window Dividers](/docs/elisp/Window-Dividers)) of any window on the frame, in pixels. A value of zero means to not draw bottom dividers.

### `menu-bar-lines`

The number of lines to allocate at the top of the frame for a menu bar (see [Menu Bar](/docs/elisp/Menu-Bar)). The default is one if Menu Bar mode is enabled and zero otherwise. See [Menu Bars](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/emacs.html#Menu-Bars) in The GNU Emacs Manual. For an external menu bar (see [Frame Layout](/docs/elisp/Frame-Layout)), this value remains unchanged even when the menu bar wraps to two or more lines. In that case, the `menu-bar-size` value returned by `frame-geometry` (see [Frame Geometry](/docs/elisp/Frame-Geometry)) allows to derive whether the menu bar actually occupies one or more lines.

### `tool-bar-lines`

The number of lines to use for the tool bar (see [Tool Bar](/docs/elisp/Tool-Bar)). The default is one if Tool Bar mode is enabled and zero otherwise. See [Tool Bars](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/emacs.html#Tool-Bars) in The GNU Emacs Manual. This value may change whenever the tool bar wraps (see [Frame Layout](/docs/elisp/Frame-Layout)).

### `tool-bar-position`

The position of the tool bar when Emacs was built with GTK+. Its value can be one of `top`, `bottom` `left`, `right`. The default is `top`.

### `line-spacing`

Additional space to leave below each text line, in pixels (a positive integer). See [Line Height](/docs/elisp/Line-Height), for more information.

### `no-special-glyphs`

If this is non-`nil`, it suppresses the display of any truncation and continuation glyphs (see [Truncation](/docs/elisp/Truncation)) for all buffers displayed by this frame. This is useful to eliminate such glyphs when fitting a frame to its buffer via `fit-frame-to-buffer` (see [Resizing Windows](/docs/elisp/Resizing-Windows)).
## 29.4.3.5 Buffer Parameters

These frame parameters, meaningful on all kinds of terminals, deal with which buffers have been, or should, be displayed in the frame.

### `minibuffer`

Whether this frame has its own minibuffer. The value `t` means yes, `nil` means no, `only` means this frame is just a minibuffer. If the value is a minibuffer window (in some other frame), the frame uses that minibuffer.

This parameter takes effect when the frame is created. If specified as `nil`, Emacs will try to set it to the minibuffer window of `default-minibuffer-frame` (see [Minibuffers and Frames](/docs/elisp/Minibuffers-and-Frames)). For an existing frame, this parameter can be used exclusively to specify another minibuffer window. It is not allowed to change it from a minibuffer window to `t` and vice-versa, or from `t` to `nil`. If the parameter specifies a minibuffer window already, setting it to `nil` has no effect.

The special value `child-frame` means to make a minibuffer-only child frame (see [Child Frames](/docs/elisp/Child-Frames)) whose parent becomes the frame created. As if specified as `nil`, Emacs will set this parameter to the minibuffer window of the child frame but will not select the child frame after its creation.

### `buffer-predicate`

The buffer-predicate function for this frame. The function `other-buffer` uses this predicate (from the selected frame) to decide which buffers it should consider, if the predicate is not `nil`. It calls the predicate with one argument, a buffer, once for each buffer; if the predicate returns a non-`nil` value, it considers that buffer.

### `buffer-list`

A list of buffers that have been selected in this frame, ordered most-recently-selected first.

### `unsplittable`

If non-`nil`, this frame’s window is never split automatically.
## 29.4.3.6 Frame Interaction Parameters

These parameters supply forms of interactions between different frames.

### `parent-frame`

If non-`nil`, this means that this frame is a child frame (see [Child Frames](/docs/elisp/Child-Frames)), and this parameter specifies its parent frame. If `nil`, this means that this frame is a normal, top-level frame.

### `delete-before`

If non-`nil`, this parameter specifies another frame whose deletion will automatically trigger the deletion of this frame. See [Deleting Frames](/docs/elisp/Deleting-Frames).

### `mouse-wheel-frame`

If non-`nil`, this parameter specifies the frame whose windows will be scrolled whenever the mouse wheel is scrolled with the mouse pointer hovering over this frame, see [Mouse Commands](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/emacs.html#Mouse-Commands) in The GNU Emacs Manual.

### `no-other-frame`

If this is non-`nil`, then this frame is not eligible as candidate for the functions `next-frame`, `previous-frame` (see [Finding All Frames](/docs/elisp/Finding-All-Frames)) and `other-frame`, see [Frame Commands](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/emacs.html#Frame-Commands) in The GNU Emacs Manual.

### `auto-hide-function`

When this parameter specifies a function, that function will be called instead of the function specified by the variable `frame-auto-hide-function` when quitting the frame’s only window (see [Quitting Windows](/docs/elisp/Quitting-Windows)) and there are other frames left.

### `minibuffer-exit`

When this parameter is non-`nil`, Emacs will by default make this frame invisible whenever the minibuffer (see [Minibuffers](/docs/elisp/Minibuffers)) is exited. Alternatively, it can specify the functions `iconify-frame` and `delete-frame`. This parameter is useful to make a child frame disappear automatically (similar to how Emacs deals with a window) when exiting the minibuffer.

### `keep-ratio`

This parameter is currently meaningful for child frames (see [Child Frames](/docs/elisp/Child-Frames)) only. If it is non-`nil`, then Emacs will try to keep the frame’s size (width and height) ratios (see [Size Parameters](/docs/elisp/Size-Parameters)) as well as its left and right position ratios (see [Position Parameters](/docs/elisp/Position-Parameters)) unaltered whenever its parent frame is resized.

If the value of this parameter is `nil`, the frame’s position and size remain unaltered when the parent frame is resized, so the position and size ratios may change. If the value of this parameter is `t`, Emacs will try to preserve the frame’s size and position ratios, hence the frame’s size and position relative to its parent frame may change.

More individual control is possible by using a cons cell: In that case the frame’s width ratio is preserved if the CAR of the cell is either `t` or `width-only`. The height ratio is preserved if the CAR of the cell is either `t` or `height-only`. The left position ratio is preserved if the CDR of the cell is either `t` or `left-only`. The top position ratio is preserved if the CDR of the cell is either `t` or `top-only`.
## 29.4.3.7 Mouse Dragging Parameters

The parameters described below provide support for resizing a frame by dragging its internal borders with the mouse. They also allow moving a frame with the mouse by dragging the header line of its topmost or the mode line of its bottommost window.

These parameters are mostly useful for child frames (see [Child Frames](/docs/elisp/Child-Frames)) that come without window manager decorations. If necessary, they can be used for undecorated top-level frames as well.

### `drag-internal-border`

If non-`nil`, the frame can be resized by dragging its internal borders, if present, with the mouse.

### `drag-with-header-line`

If non-`nil`, the frame can be moved with the mouse by dragging the header line of its topmost window.

### `drag-with-mode-line`

If non-`nil`, the frame can be moved with the mouse by dragging the mode line of its bottommost window. Note that such a frame is not allowed to have its own minibuffer window.

### `snap-width`

A frame that is moved with the mouse will “snap" at the border(s) of the display or its parent frame whenever it is dragged as near to such an edge as the number of pixels specified by this parameter.

### `top-visible`

If this parameter is a number, the top edge of the frame never appears above the top edge of its display or parent frame. Moreover, as many pixels of the frame as specified by that number will remain visible when the frame is moved against any of the remaining edges of its display or parent frame. Setting this parameter is useful to guard against dragging a child frame with a non-`nil` `drag-with-header-line` parameter completely out of the area of its parent frame.

### `bottom-visible`

If this parameter is a number, the bottom edge of the frame never appears below the bottom edge of its display or parent frame. Moreover, as many pixels of the frame as specified by that number will remain visible when the frame is moved against any of the remaining edges of its display or parent frame. Setting this parameter is useful to guard against dragging a child frame with a non-`nil` `drag-with-mode-line` parameter completely out of the area of its parent frame.
## 29.4.3.8 Window Management Parameters

The following frame parameters control various aspects of the frame’s interaction with the window manager or window system. They have no effect on text terminals.

### `visibility`

The state of visibility of the frame. There are three possibilities: `nil` for invisible, `t` for visible, and `icon` for iconified. See [Visibility of Frames](/docs/elisp/Visibility-of-Frames).

### `auto-raise`

If non-`nil`, Emacs automatically raises the frame when it is selected. Some window managers do not allow this.

### `auto-lower`

If non-`nil`, Emacs automatically lowers the frame when it is deselected. Some window managers do not allow this.

### `icon-type`

The type of icon to use for this frame. If the value is a string, that specifies a file containing a bitmap to use; `nil` specifies no icon (in which case the window manager decides what to show); any other non-`nil` value specifies the default Emacs icon.

### `icon-name`

The name to use in the icon for this frame, when and if the icon appears. If this is `nil`, the frame’s title is used.

### `window-id`

The ID number which the graphical display uses for this frame. Emacs assigns this parameter when the frame is created; changing the parameter has no effect on the actual ID number.

### `outer-window-id`

The ID number of the outermost window-system window in which the frame exists. As with `window-id`, changing this parameter has no actual effect.

### `wait-for-wm`

If non-`nil`, tell Xt to wait for the window manager to confirm geometry changes. Some window managers, including versions of Fvwm2 and KDE, fail to confirm, so Xt hangs. Set this to `nil` to prevent hanging with those window managers.

### `sticky`

If non-`nil`, the frame is visible on all virtual desktops on systems with virtual desktops.

### `inhibit-double-buffering`

If non-`nil`, the frame is drawn to the screen without double buffering. Emacs normally attempts to use double buffering, where available, to reduce flicker. Set this property if you experience display bugs or pine for that retro, flicker-y feeling.

### `skip-taskbar`

If non-`nil`, this tells the window manager to remove the frame’s icon from the taskbar associated with the frame’s display and inhibit switching to the frame’s window via the combination `Alt-TAB`. On MS-Windows, iconifying such a frame will "roll in" its window-system window at the bottom of the desktop. Some window managers may not honor this parameter.

### `no-focus-on-map`

If non-`nil`, this means that the frame does not want to receive input focus when it is mapped (see [Visibility of Frames](/docs/elisp/Visibility-of-Frames)). Some window managers may not honor this parameter.

### `no-accept-focus`

If non-`nil`, this means that the frame does not want to receive input focus via explicit mouse clicks or when moving the mouse into it either via `focus-follows-mouse` (see [Input Focus](/docs/elisp/Input-Focus)) or `mouse-autoselect-window` (see [Mouse Window Auto-selection](/docs/elisp/Mouse-Window-Auto_002dselection)). This may have the unwanted side-effect that a user cannot scroll a non-selected frame with the mouse. Some window managers may not honor this parameter.

### `undecorated`

If non-`nil`, this frame’s window-system window is drawn without decorations, like the title, minimize/maximize boxes and external borders. This usually means that the window cannot be dragged, resized, iconified, maximized or deleted with the mouse. If `nil`, the frame’s window is usually drawn with all the elements listed above unless their display has been suspended via window manager settings.

Under X, Emacs uses the Motif window manager hints to turn off decorations. Some window managers may not honor these hints.

NS builds consider the tool bar to be a decoration, and therefore hide it on an undecorated frame.

### `override-redirect`

If non-`nil`, this means that this is an *override redirect* frame—a frame not handled by window managers under X. Override redirect frames have no window manager decorations, can be positioned and resized only via Emacs’ positioning and resizing functions and are usually drawn on top of all other frames. Setting this parameter has no effect on MS-Windows.

### `ns-appearance`

Only available on macOS, if set to `dark` draw this frame’s window-system window using the “vibrant dark" theme, otherwise use the system default. The “vibrant dark" theme can be used to set the toolbar and scrollbars to a dark appearance when using an Emacs theme with a dark background.

### `ns-transparent-titlebar`

Only available on macOS, if non-`nil`, set the titlebar and toolbar to be transparent. This effectively sets the background color of both to match the Emacs background color.
## 29.4.3.9 Cursor Parameters

This frame parameter controls the way the cursor looks.

### `cursor-type`

How to display the cursor. Legitimate values are:

### `box`

Display a filled box. (This is the default.)

### `hollow`

Display a hollow box.

### `nil`

Don’t display a cursor.

### `bar`

Display a vertical bar between characters.

### `(bar . width)`

Display a vertical bar `width` pixels wide between characters.

### `hbar`

Display a horizontal bar.

### `(hbar . height)`

Display a horizontal bar `height` pixels high.

The `cursor-type` frame parameter may be overridden by the variables `cursor-type` and `cursor-in-non-selected-windows`:

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **cursor-type**

This buffer-local variable controls how the cursor looks in a selected window showing the buffer. If its value is `t`, that means to use the cursor specified by the `cursor-type` frame parameter. Otherwise, the value should be one of the cursor types listed above, and it overrides the `cursor-type` frame parameter.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **cursor-in-non-selected-windows**

This buffer-local variable controls how the cursor looks in a window that is not selected. It supports the same values as the `cursor-type` frame parameter; also, `nil` means don’t display a cursor in nonselected windows, and `t` (the default) means use a standard modification of the usual cursor type (solid box becomes hollow box, and bar becomes a narrower bar).

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **x-stretch-cursor**

This variable controls the width of the block cursor displayed on extra-wide glyphs such as a tab or a stretch of white space. By default, the block cursor is only as wide as the font’s default character, and will not cover all of the width of the glyph under it if that glyph is extra-wide. A non-`nil` value of this variable means draw the block cursor as wide as the glyph under it. The default value is `nil`.

This variable has no effect on text-mode frames, since the text-mode cursor is drawn by the terminal out of Emacs’s control.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **blink-cursor-alist**

This variable specifies how to blink the cursor. Each element has the form `(on-state . off-state)`. Whenever the cursor type equals `on-state` (comparing using `equal`), the corresponding `off-state` specifies what the cursor looks like when it blinks off. Both `on-state` and `off-state` should be suitable values for the `cursor-type` frame parameter.

There are various defaults for how to blink each type of cursor, if the type is not mentioned as an `on-state` here. Changes in this variable do not take effect immediately, only when you specify the `cursor-type` frame parameter.
## 29.4.3.10 Font and Color Parameters

These frame parameters control the use of fonts and colors.

### `font-backend`

A list of symbols, specifying the *font backends* to use for drawing characters on the frame, in order of priority. In Emacs built without Cairo drawing on X, there are currently three potentially available font backends: `x` (the X core font driver), `xft` (the Xft font driver), and `xfthb` (the Xft font driver with HarfBuzz text shaping). If built with Cairo drawing, there are also three potentially available font backends on X: `x`, `ftcr` (the FreeType font driver on Cairo), and `ftcrhb` (the FreeType font driver on Cairo with HarfBuzz text shaping). When Emacs is built with HarfBuzz, the default font driver is `ftcrhb`, although use of the `ftcr` driver is still possible, but not recommended. On MS-Windows, there are currently three available font backends: `gdi` (the core MS-Windows font driver), `uniscribe` (font driver for OTF and TTF fonts with text shaping by the Uniscribe engine), and `harfbuzz` (font driver for OTF and TTF fonts with HarfBuzz text shaping) (see [Windows Fonts](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/emacs.html#Windows-Fonts) in The GNU Emacs Manual). The `harfbuzz` driver is similarly recommended. On other systems, there is only one available font backend, so it does not make sense to modify this frame parameter.

### `background-mode`

This parameter is either `dark` or `light`, according to whether the background color is a light one or a dark one.

### `tty-color-mode`

This parameter overrides the terminal’s color support as given by the system’s terminal capabilities database in that this parameter’s value specifies the color mode to use on a text terminal. The value can be either a symbol or a number. A number specifies the number of colors to use (and, indirectly, what commands to issue to produce each color). For example, `(tty-color-mode . 8)` specifies use of the ANSI escape sequences for 8 standard text colors. A value of -1 turns off color support.

If the parameter’s value is a symbol, it specifies a number through the value of `tty-color-mode-alist`, and the associated number is used instead.

### `screen-gamma`

If this is a number, Emacs performs gamma correction which adjusts the brightness of all colors. The value should be the screen gamma of your display.

Usual PC monitors have a screen gamma of 2.2, so color values in Emacs, and in X windows generally, are calibrated to display properly on a monitor with that gamma value. If you specify 2.2 for `screen-gamma`, that means no correction is needed. Other values request correction, designed to make the corrected colors appear on your screen the way they would have appeared without correction on an ordinary monitor with a gamma value of 2.2.

If your monitor displays colors too light, you should specify a `screen-gamma` value smaller than 2.2. This requests correction that makes colors darker. A screen gamma value of 1.5 may give good results for LCD color displays.

### `alpha`

This parameter specifies the opacity of the frame, on graphical displays that support variable opacity. It should be an integer between 0 and 100, where 0 means completely transparent and 100 means completely opaque. It can also have a `nil` value, which tells Emacs not to set the frame opacity (leaving it to the window manager).

To prevent the frame from disappearing completely from view, the variable `frame-alpha-lower-limit` defines a lower opacity limit. If the value of the frame parameter is less than the value of this variable, Emacs uses the latter. By default, `frame-alpha-lower-limit` is 20.

The `alpha` frame parameter can also be a cons cell `(active . inactive)`, where `active` is the opacity of the frame when it is selected, and `inactive` is the opacity when it is not selected.

Some window systems do not support the `alpha` parameter for child frames (see [Child Frames](/docs/elisp/Child-Frames)).

The following frame parameters are semi-obsolete in that they are automatically equivalent to particular face attributes of particular faces (see [Standard Faces](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/emacs.html#Standard-Faces) in The Emacs Manual):

### `font`

The name of the font for displaying text in the frame. This is a string, either a valid font name for your system or the name of an Emacs fontset (see [Fontsets](/docs/elisp/Fontsets)). It is equivalent to the `font` attribute of the `default` face.

### `foreground-color`

The color to use for the image of a character. It is equivalent to the `:foreground` attribute of the `default` face.

### `background-color`

The color to use for the background of characters. It is equivalent to the `:background` attribute of the `default` face.

### `mouse-color`

The color for the mouse pointer. It is equivalent to the `:background` attribute of the `mouse` face.

### `cursor-color`

The color for the cursor that shows point. It is equivalent to the `:background` attribute of the `cursor` face.

### `border-color`

The color for the border of the frame. It is equivalent to the `:background` attribute of the `border` face.

### `scroll-bar-foreground`

If non-`nil`, the color for the foreground of scroll bars. It is equivalent to the `:foreground` attribute of the `scroll-bar` face.

### `scroll-bar-background`

If non-`nil`, the color for the background of scroll bars. It is equivalent to the `:background` attribute of the `scroll-bar` face.
