---
slug: Terminal-Parameters
---

Each terminal has a list of associated parameters. These *terminal parameters* are mostly a convenient way of storage for terminal-local variables, but some terminal parameters have a special meaning.

This section describes functions to read and change the parameter values of a terminal. They all accept as their argument either a terminal or a frame; the latter means use that frame’s terminal. An argument of `nil` means the selected frame’s terminal.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **terminal-parameters** *\&optional terminal*

This function returns an alist listing all the parameters of `terminal` and their values.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **terminal-parameter** *terminal parameter*

This function returns the value of the parameter `parameter` (a symbol) of `terminal`. If `terminal` has no setting for `parameter`, this function returns `nil`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **set-terminal-parameter** *terminal parameter value*

This function sets the parameter `parameter` of `terminal` to the specified `value`, and returns the previous value of that parameter.

Here’s a list of a few terminal parameters that have a special meaning:

### `background-mode`

The classification of the terminal’s background color, either `light` or `dark`.

### `normal-erase-is-backspace`

Value is either 1 or 0, depending on whether `normal-erase-is-backspace-mode` is turned on or off on this terminal. See [DEL Does Not Delete](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/emacs.html#DEL-Does-Not-Delete) in The Emacs Manual.

### `terminal-initted`

After the terminal is initialized, this is set to the terminal-specific initialization function.

### `tty-mode-set-strings`

When present, a list of strings containing escape sequences that Emacs will output while configuring a tty for rendering. Emacs emits these strings only when configuring a terminal: if you want to enable a mode on a terminal that is already active (for example, while in `tty-setup-hook`), explicitly output the necessary escape sequence using `send-string-to-terminal` in addition to adding the sequence to `tty-mode-set-strings`.

### `tty-mode-reset-strings`

When present, a list of strings that undo the effects of the strings in `tty-mode-set-strings`. Emacs emits these strings when exiting, deleting a terminal, or suspending itself.
