---
slug: Deleting-Frames
---

A *live frame* is one that has not been deleted. When a frame is deleted, it is removed from its terminal display, although it may continue to exist as a Lisp object until there are no more references to it.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **delete-frame** *\&optional frame force*

This function deletes the frame `frame`. The argument `frame` must specify a live frame (see below) and defaults to the selected frame.

It first deletes any child frame of `frame` (see [Child Frames](Child-Frames)) and any frame whose `delete-before` frame parameter (see [Frame Interaction Parameters](Frame-Interaction-Parameters)) specifies `frame`. All such deletions are performed recursively; so this step makes sure that no other frames with `frame` as their ancestor will exist. Then, unless `frame` specifies a tooltip, this function runs the hook `delete-frame-functions` (each function getting one argument, `frame`) before actually killing the frame. After actually killing the frame and removing the frame from the frame list, `delete-frame` runs `after-delete-frame-functions`.

Note that a frame cannot be deleted as long as its minibuffer serves as surrogate minibuffer for another frame (see [Minibuffers and Frames](Minibuffers-and-Frames)). Normally, you cannot delete a frame if all other frames are invisible, but if `force` is non-`nil`, then you are allowed to do so.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **frame-live-p** *frame*

This function returns non-`nil` if the frame `frame` has not been deleted. The possible non-`nil` return values are like those of `framep`. See [Frames](Frames).

Some window managers provide a command to delete a window. These work by sending a special message to the program that operates the window. When Emacs gets one of these commands, it generates a `delete-frame` event, whose normal definition is a command that calls the function `delete-frame`. See [Misc Events](Misc-Events).

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **delete-other-frames** *\&optional frame*

This command deletes all frames on `frame`’s terminal, except `frame`. If `frame` uses another frame’s minibuffer, that minibuffer frame is left untouched. The argument `frame` must specify a live frame and defaults to the selected frame. Internally, this command works by calling `delete-frame` with `force` `nil` for all frames that shall be deleted.

This function does not delete any of `frame`’s child frames (see [Child Frames](Child-Frames)). If `frame` is a child frame, it deletes `frame`’s siblings only.
