---
slug: Finding-All-Frames
---

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **frame-list**

This function returns a list of all the live frames, i.e., those that have not been deleted. It is analogous to `buffer-list` for buffers, and includes frames on all terminals. The list that you get is newly created, so modifying the list doesn’t have any effect on the internals of Emacs.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **visible-frame-list**

This function returns a list of just the currently visible frames. See [Visibility of Frames](Visibility-of-Frames). Frames on text terminals always count as visible, even though only the selected one is actually displayed.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **frame-list-z-order** *\&optional display*

This function returns a list of Emacs’ frames, in Z (stacking) order (see [Raising and Lowering](Raising-and-Lowering)). The optional argument `display` specifies which display to poll. `display` should be either a frame or a display name (a string). If omitted or `nil`, that stands for the selected frame’s display. It returns `nil` if `display` contains no Emacs frame.

Frames are listed from topmost (first) to bottommost (last). As a special case, if `display` is non-`nil` and specifies a live frame, it returns the child frames of that frame in Z (stacking) order.

This function is not meaningful on text terminals.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **next-frame** *\&optional frame minibuf*

This function lets you cycle conveniently through all the frames on a specific terminal from an arbitrary starting point. It returns the frame following `frame`, in the list of all live frames, on `frame`’s terminal. The argument `frame` must specify a live frame and defaults to the selected frame. It never returns a frame whose `no-other-frame` parameter (see [Frame Interaction Parameters](Frame-Interaction-Parameters)) is non-`nil`.

The second argument, `minibuf`, says which frames to consider:

### `nil`

Exclude minibuffer-only frames.

### `visible`

Consider all visible frames.

### 0

Consider all visible or iconified frames.

### a window

Consider only the frames using that particular window as their minibuffer.

### anything else

Consider all frames.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **previous-frame** *\&optional frame minibuf*

Like `next-frame`, but cycles through all frames in the opposite direction.

See also `next-window` and `previous-window`, in [Cyclic Window Ordering](Cyclic-Window-Ordering).
