---
slug: Predicates-on-Numbers
---

The functions in this section test for numbers, or for a specific type of number. The functions `integerp` and `floatp` can take any type of Lisp object as argument (they would not be of much use otherwise), but the `zerop` predicate requires a number as its argument. See also `integer-or-marker-p` and `number-or-marker-p`, in [Predicates on Markers](/docs/elisp/Predicates-on-Markers).

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **bignump** *object*

This predicate tests whether its argument is a large integer, and returns `t` if so, `nil` otherwise. Unlike small integers, large integers can be `=` or `eql` even if they are not `eq`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **fixnump** *object*

This predicate tests whether its argument is a small integer, and returns `t` if so, `nil` otherwise. Small integers can be compared with `eq`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **floatp** *object*

This predicate tests whether its argument is floating point and returns `t` if so, `nil` otherwise.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **integerp** *object*

This predicate tests whether its argument is an integer, and returns `t` if so, `nil` otherwise.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **numberp** *object*

This predicate tests whether its argument is a number (either integer or floating point), and returns `t` if so, `nil` otherwise.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **natnump** *object*

This predicate (whose name comes from the phrase “natural number") tests to see whether its argument is a nonnegative integer, and returns `t` if so, `nil` otherwise. 0 is considered non-negative.

`wholenump` is a synonym for `natnump`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **zerop** *number*

This predicate tests whether its argument is zero, and returns `t` if so, `nil` otherwise. The argument must be a number.

`(zerop x)` is equivalent to `(= x 0)`.
