---
slug: List-Motion
---

Here are several functions concerned with balanced-parenthesis expressions (also called *sexps* in connection with moving across them in Emacs). The syntax table controls how these functions interpret various characters; see [Syntax Tables](/docs/elisp/Syntax-Tables). See [Parsing Expressions](/docs/elisp/Parsing-Expressions), for lower-level primitives for scanning sexps or parts of sexps. For user-level commands, see [Commands for Editing with Parentheses](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/emacs.html#Parentheses) in The GNU Emacs Manual.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **forward-list** *\&optional arg*

This function moves forward across `arg` (default 1) balanced groups of parentheses. (Other syntactic entities such as words or paired string quotes are ignored.)

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **backward-list** *\&optional arg*

This function moves backward across `arg` (default 1) balanced groups of parentheses. (Other syntactic entities such as words or paired string quotes are ignored.)

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **up-list** *\&optional arg escape-strings no-syntax-crossing*

This function moves forward out of `arg` (default 1) levels of parentheses. A negative argument means move backward but still to a less deep spot. If `escape-strings` is non-`nil` (as it is interactively), move out of enclosing strings as well. If `no-syntax-crossing` is non-`nil` (as it is interactively), prefer to break out of any enclosing string instead of moving to the start of a list broken across multiple strings. On error, location of point is unspecified.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **backward-up-list** *\&optional arg escape-strings no-syntax-crossing*

This function is just like `up-list`, but with a negated argument.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **down-list** *\&optional arg*

This function moves forward into `arg` (default 1) levels of parentheses. A negative argument means move backward but still go deeper in parentheses (-`arg` levels).

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **forward-sexp** *\&optional arg*

This function moves forward across `arg` (default 1) balanced expressions. Balanced expressions include both those delimited by parentheses and other kinds, such as words and string constants. See [Parsing Expressions](/docs/elisp/Parsing-Expressions). For example,

```lisp
---------- Buffer: foo ----------
(concat∗ "foo " (car x) y z)
---------- Buffer: foo ----------
```



```lisp
(forward-sexp 3)
     ⇒ nil

---------- Buffer: foo ----------
(concat "foo " (car x) y∗ z)
---------- Buffer: foo ----------
```

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **backward-sexp** *\&optional arg*

This function moves backward across `arg` (default 1) balanced expressions.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **beginning-of-defun** *\&optional arg*

This function moves back to the `arg`th beginning of a defun. If `arg` is negative, this actually moves forward, but it still moves to the beginning of a defun, not to the end of one. `arg` defaults to 1.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **end-of-defun** *\&optional arg*

This function moves forward to the `arg`th end of a defun. If `arg` is negative, this actually moves backward, but it still moves to the end of a defun, not to the beginning of one. `arg` defaults to 1.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **defun-prompt-regexp**

If non-`nil`, this buffer-local variable holds a regular expression that specifies what text can appear before the open-parenthesis that starts a defun. That is to say, a defun begins on a line that starts with a match for this regular expression, followed by a character with open-parenthesis syntax.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **open-paren-in-column-0-is-defun-start**

If this variable’s value is non-`nil`, an open parenthesis in column 0 is considered to be the start of a defun. If it is `nil`, an open parenthesis in column 0 has no special meaning. The default is `t`. If a string literal happens to have a parenthesis in column 0, escape it with a backslash to avoid a false positive.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **beginning-of-defun-function**

If non-`nil`, this variable holds a function for finding the beginning of a defun. The function `beginning-of-defun` calls this function instead of using its normal method, passing it its optional argument. If the argument is non-`nil`, the function should move back by that many functions, like `beginning-of-defun` does.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **end-of-defun-function**

If non-`nil`, this variable holds a function for finding the end of a defun. The function `end-of-defun` calls this function instead of using its normal method.
