---
slug: Skipping-Characters
---

The following two functions move point over a specified set of characters. For example, they are often used to skip whitespace. For related functions, see [Motion and Syntax](/docs/elisp/Motion-and-Syntax).

These functions convert the set string to multibyte if the buffer is multibyte, and they convert it to unibyte if the buffer is unibyte, as the search functions do (see [Searching and Matching](/docs/elisp/Searching-and-Matching)).

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **skip-chars-forward** *character-set \&optional limit*

This function moves point in the current buffer forward, skipping over a given set of characters. It examines the character following point, then advances point if the character matches `character-set`. This continues until it reaches a character that does not match. The function returns the number of characters moved over.

The argument `character-set` is a string, like the inside of a ‘`[…]`’ in a regular expression except that ‘`]`’ does not terminate it, and ‘`\`’ quotes ‘`^`’, ‘`-`’ or ‘`\`’. Thus, `"a-zA-Z"` skips over all letters, stopping before the first nonletter, and `"^a-zA-Z"` skips nonletters stopping before the first letter (see [Regular Expressions](/docs/elisp/Regular-Expressions)). Character classes can also be used, e.g., `"[:alnum:]"` (see [Char Classes](/docs/elisp/Char-Classes)).

If `limit` is supplied (it must be a number or a marker), it specifies the maximum position in the buffer that point can be skipped to. Point will stop at or before `limit`.

In the following example, point is initially located directly before the ‘`T`’. After the form is evaluated, point is located at the end of that line (between the ‘`t`’ of ‘`hat`’ and the newline). The function skips all letters and spaces, but not newlines.

```lisp
---------- Buffer: foo ----------
I read "∗The cat in the hat
comes back" twice.
---------- Buffer: foo ----------
```



```lisp
(skip-chars-forward "a-zA-Z ")
     ⇒ 18

---------- Buffer: foo ----------
I read "The cat in the hat∗
comes back" twice.
---------- Buffer: foo ----------
```

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **skip-chars-backward** *character-set \&optional limit*

This function moves point backward, skipping characters that match `character-set`, until `limit`. It is just like `skip-chars-forward` except for the direction of motion.

The return value indicates the distance traveled. It is an integer that is zero or less.
