---
slug: Parsing-HTML_002fXML
---

Emacs can be compiled with built-in libxml2 support.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **libxml-available-p**

This function returns non-`nil` if built-in libxml2 support is available in this Emacs session.

When libxml2 support is available, the following functions can be used to parse HTML or XML text into Lisp object trees.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **libxml-parse-html-region** *start end \&optional base-url discard-comments*

This function parses the text between `start` and `end` as HTML, and returns a list representing the HTML *parse tree*. It attempts to handle real-world HTML by robustly coping with syntax mistakes.

The optional argument `base-url`, if non-`nil`, should be a string specifying the base URL for relative URLs occurring in links.

If the optional argument `discard-comments` is non-`nil`, any top-level comment is discarded. (This argument is obsolete and will be removed in future Emacs versions. To remove comments, use the `xml-remove-comments` utility function on the data before you call the parsing function.)

In the parse tree, each HTML node is represented by a list in which the first element is a symbol representing the node name, the second element is an alist of node attributes, and the remaining elements are the subnodes.

The following example demonstrates this. Given this (malformed) HTML document:

```lisp
<html><head></head><body width=101><div class=thing>Foo<div>Yes
```

A call to `libxml-parse-html-region` returns this DOM (document object model):

```lisp
(html nil
 (head nil)
 (body ((width . "101"))
  (div ((class . "thing"))
   "Foo"
   (div nil
    "Yes"))))
```

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **shr-insert-document** *dom*

This function renders the parsed HTML in `dom` into the current buffer. The argument `dom` should be a list as generated by `libxml-parse-html-region`. This function is, e.g., used by [EWW](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/eww.html#Top) in The Emacs Web Wowser Manual.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **libxml-parse-xml-region** *start end \&optional base-url discard-comments*

This function is the same as `libxml-parse-html-region`, except that it parses the text as XML rather than HTML (so it is stricter about syntax).

|                                                  |    |                                        |
| :----------------------------------------------- | -- | :------------------------------------- |
| • [Document Object Model](Document-Object-Model) |    | Access, manipulate and search the DOM. |
