---
slug: Document-Object-Model
---

The DOM returned by `libxml-parse-html-region` (and the other XML parsing functions) is a tree structure where each node has a node name (called a *tag*), and optional key/value *attribute* list, and then a list of *child nodes*. The child nodes are either strings or DOM objects.

```lisp
(body ((width . "101"))
 (div ((class . "thing"))
  "Foo"
  (div nil
   "Yes")))
```

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **dom-node** *tag \&optional attributes \&rest children*

This function creates a DOM node of type `tag`. If given, `attributes` should be a key/value pair list. If given, `children` should be DOM nodes.

The following functions can be used to work with this structure. Each function takes a DOM node, or a list of nodes. In the latter case, only the first node in the list is used.

Simple accessors:

### `dom-tag node`

Return the *tag* (also called “node name") of the node.

### `dom-attr node attribute`

Return the value of `attribute` in the node. A common usage would be:

```lisp
(dom-attr img 'href)
=> "https://fsf.org/logo.png"
```

### `dom-children node`

Return all the children of the node.

### `dom-non-text-children node`

Return all the non-string children of the node.

### `dom-attributes node`

Return the key/value pair list of attributes of the node.

### `dom-text node`

Return all the textual elements of the node as a concatenated string.

### `dom-texts node`

Return all the textual elements of the node, as well as the textual elements of all the children of the node, recursively, as a concatenated string. This function also takes an optional separator to be inserted between the textual elements.

### `dom-parent dom node`

Return the parent of `node` in `dom`.

### `dom-remove dom node`

Remove `node` from `dom`.

The following are functions for altering the DOM.

### `dom-set-attribute node attribute value`

Set the `attribute` of the node to `value`.

### `dom-append-child node child`

Append `child` as the last child of `node`.

### `dom-add-child-before node child before`

Add `child` to `node`’s child list before the `before` node. If `before` is `nil`, make `child` the first child.

### `dom-set-attributes node attributes`

Replace all the attributes of the node with a new key/value list.

The following are functions for searching for elements in the DOM. They all return lists of matching nodes.

### `dom-by-tag dom tag`

Return all nodes in `dom` that are of type `tag`. A typical use would be:

```lisp
(dom-by-tag dom 'td)
=> '((td ...) (td ...) (td ...))
```

### `dom-by-class dom match`

Return all nodes in `dom` that have class names that match `match`, which is a regular expression.

### `dom-by-style dom style`

Return all nodes in `dom` that have styles that match `match`, which is a regular expression.

### `dom-by-id dom style`

Return all nodes in `dom` that have IDs that match `match`, which is a regular expression.

### `dom-search dom predicate`

Return all nodes in `dom` where `predicate` returns a non-`nil` value. `predicate` is called with the node to be tested as its parameter.

### `dom-strings dom`

Return all strings in `dom`.

Utility functions:

### `dom-pp dom &optional remove-empty`

Pretty-print `dom` at point. If `remove-empty`, don’t print textual nodes that just contain white-space.
