---
slug: Locales
---

In POSIX, locales control which language to use in language-related features. These Emacs variables control how Emacs interacts with these features.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **locale-coding-system**

This variable specifies the coding system to use for decoding system error messages and—on X Window system only—keyboard input, for sending batch output to the standard output and error streams, for encoding the format argument to `format-time-string`, and for decoding the return value of `format-time-string`.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **system-messages-locale**

This variable specifies the locale to use for generating system error messages. Changing the locale can cause messages to come out in a different language or in a different orthography. If the variable is `nil`, the locale is specified by environment variables in the usual POSIX fashion.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **system-time-locale**

This variable specifies the locale to use for formatting time values. Changing the locale can cause messages to appear according to the conventions of a different language. If the variable is `nil`, the locale is specified by environment variables in the usual POSIX fashion.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **locale-info** *item*

This function returns locale data `item` for the current POSIX locale, if available. `item` should be one of these symbols:

### `codeset`

Return the character set as a string (locale item `CODESET`).

### `days`

Return a 7-element vector of day names (locale items `DAY_1` through `DAY_7`);

### `months`

Return a 12-element vector of month names (locale items `MON_1` through `MON_12`).

### `paper`

Return a list `(width height)`<!-- /@w --> of 2 integers, for the default paper size measured in millimeters (locale items `_NL_PAPER_WIDTH` and `_NL_PAPER_HEIGHT`).

If the system can’t provide the requested information, or if `item` is not one of those symbols, the value is `nil`. All strings in the return value are decoded using `locale-coding-system`. See [Locales](https://www.gnu.org/software/libc/manual/html_mono/libc.html#Locales) in The GNU Libc Manual, for more information about locales and locale items.
