---
slug: Low_002dLevel-Parsing
---

The most basic way to use the expression parser is to tell it to start at a given position with a certain state, and parse up to a specified end position.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **parse-partial-sexp** *start limit \&optional target-depth stop-before state stop-comment*

This function parses a sexp in the current buffer starting at `start`, not scanning past `limit`. It stops at position `limit` or when certain criteria described below are met, and sets point to the location where parsing stops. It returns a parser state describing the status of the parse at the point where it stops.

If the third argument `target-depth` is non-`nil`, parsing stops if the depth in parentheses becomes equal to `target-depth`. The depth starts at 0, or at whatever is given in `state`.

If the fourth argument `stop-before` is non-`nil`, parsing stops when it comes to any character that starts a sexp. If `stop-comment` is non-`nil`, parsing stops after the start of an unnested comment. If `stop-comment` is the symbol `syntax-table`, parsing stops after the start of an unnested comment or a string, or after the end of an unnested comment or a string, whichever comes first.

If `state` is `nil`, `start` is assumed to be at the top level of parenthesis structure, such as the beginning of a function definition. Alternatively, you might wish to resume parsing in the middle of the structure. To do this, you must provide a `state` argument that describes the initial status of parsing. The value returned by a previous call to `parse-partial-sexp` will do nicely.
