---
slug: Abbrev-Files
---

A file of saved abbrev definitions is actually a file of Lisp code. The abbrevs are saved in the form of a Lisp program to define the same abbrev tables with the same contents. Therefore, you can load the file with `load` (see [How Programs Do Loading](How-Programs-Do-Loading)). However, the function `quietly-read-abbrev-file` is provided as a more convenient interface. Emacs automatically calls this function at startup.

User-level facilities such as `save-some-buffers` can save abbrevs in a file automatically, under the control of variables described here.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **abbrev-file-name**

This is the default file name for reading and saving abbrevs. By default, Emacs will look for `~/.emacs.d/abbrev_defs`, and, if not found, for `~/.abbrev_defs`; if neither file exists, Emacs will create `~/.emacs.d/abbrev_defs`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **quietly-read-abbrev-file** *\&optional filename*

This function reads abbrev definitions from a file named `filename`, previously written with `write-abbrev-file`. If `filename` is omitted or `nil`, the file specified in `abbrev-file-name` is used.

As the name implies, this function does not display any messages.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **save-abbrevs**

A non-`nil` value for `save-abbrevs` means that Emacs should offer to save abbrevs (if any have changed) when files are saved. If the value is `silently`, Emacs saves the abbrevs without asking the user. `abbrev-file-name` specifies the file to save the abbrevs in. The default value is `t`.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **abbrevs-changed**

This variable is set non-`nil` by defining or altering any abbrevs (except system abbrevs). This serves as a flag for various Emacs commands to offer to save your abbrevs.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **write-abbrev-file** *\&optional filename*

Save all abbrev definitions (except system abbrevs), for all abbrev tables listed in `abbrev-table-name-list`, in the file `filename`, in the form of a Lisp program that when loaded will define the same abbrevs. Tables that do not have any abbrevs to save are omitted. If `filename` is `nil` or omitted, `abbrev-file-name` is used. This function returns `nil`.
