---
slug: Standard-Abbrev-Tables
---

Here we list the variables that hold the abbrev tables for the preloaded major modes of Emacs.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **global-abbrev-table**

This is the abbrev table for mode-independent abbrevs. The abbrevs defined in it apply to all buffers. Each buffer may also have a local abbrev table, whose abbrev definitions take precedence over those in the global table.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **local-abbrev-table**

The value of this buffer-local variable is the (mode-specific) abbreviation table of the current buffer. It can also be a list of such tables.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **abbrev-minor-mode-table-alist**

The value of this variable is a list of elements of the form `(mode . abbrev-table)` where `mode` is the name of a variable: if the variable is bound to a non-`nil` value, then the `abbrev-table` is active, otherwise it is ignored. `abbrev-table` can also be a list of abbrev tables.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **fundamental-mode-abbrev-table**

This is the local abbrev table used in Fundamental mode; in other words, it is the local abbrev table in all buffers in Fundamental mode.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **text-mode-abbrev-table**

This is the local abbrev table used in Text mode.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **lisp-mode-abbrev-table**

This is the local abbrev table used in Lisp mode. It is the parent of the local abbrev table used in Emacs Lisp mode. See [Abbrev Table Properties](/docs/elisp/Abbrev-Table-Properties).
