---
slug: Abbrev-Table-Properties
---

Like abbrevs, abbrev tables have properties, some of which influence the way they work. You can provide them as arguments to `define-abbrev-table`, and manipulate them with the functions:

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **abbrev-table-put** *table prop val*

Set the property `prop` of abbrev table `table` to value `val`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **abbrev-table-get** *table prop*

Return the property `prop` of abbrev table `table`, or `nil` if `table` has no such property.

The following properties have special meaning:

### `:enable-function`

This is like the `:enable-function` abbrev property except that it applies to all abbrevs in the table. It is used before even trying to find the abbrev before point, so it can dynamically modify the abbrev table.

### `:case-fixed`

This is like the `:case-fixed` abbrev property except that it applies to all abbrevs in the table.

### `:regexp`

If non-`nil`, this property is a regular expression that indicates how to extract the name of the abbrev before point, before looking it up in the table. When the regular expression matches before point, the abbrev name is expected to be in submatch 1. If this property is `nil`, the default is to use `backward-word` and `forward-word` to find the name. This property allows the use of abbrevs whose name contains characters of non-word syntax.

### `:parents`

This property holds a list of tables from which to inherit other abbrevs.

### `:abbrev-table-modiff`

This property holds a counter incremented each time a new abbrev is added to the table.
