---
slug: Mutexes
---

A *mutex* is an exclusive lock. At any moment, zero or one threads may own a mutex. If a thread attempts to acquire a mutex, and the mutex is already owned by some other thread, then the acquiring thread will block until the mutex becomes available.

Emacs Lisp mutexes are of a type called *recursive*, which means that a thread can re-acquire a mutex it owns any number of times. A mutex keeps a count of how many times it has been acquired, and each acquisition of a mutex must be paired with a release. The last release by a thread of a mutex reverts it to the unowned state, potentially allowing another thread to acquire the mutex.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **mutexp** *object*

This function returns `t` if `object` represents an Emacs mutex, `nil` otherwise.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **make-mutex** *\&optional name*

Create a new mutex and return it. If `name` is specified, it is a name given to the mutex. It must be a string. The name is for debugging purposes only; it has no meaning to Emacs.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **mutex-name** *mutex*

Return the name of `mutex`, as specified to `make-mutex`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **mutex-lock** *mutex*

This will block until this thread acquires `mutex`, or until this thread is signaled using `thread-signal`. If `mutex` is already owned by this thread, this simply returns.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **mutex-unlock** *mutex*

Release `mutex`. If `mutex` is not owned by this thread, this will signal an error.

### <span className="tag macro">`macro`</span> **with-mutex** *mutex body…*

This macro is the simplest and safest way to evaluate forms while holding a mutex. It acquires `mutex`, invokes `body`, and then releases `mutex`. It returns the result of `body`.
