---
slug: Misc-Network
---

These additional functions are useful for creating and operating on network connections. Note that they are supported only on some systems.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **network-interface-list** *\&optional full family*

This function returns a list describing the network interfaces of the machine you are using. The value is an alist whose elements have the form `(ifname . address)`. `ifname` is a string naming the interface, `address` has the same form as the `local-address` and `remote-address` arguments to `make-network-process`, i.e. a vector of integers. By default both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are returned if possible.

Optional argument `full` non-`nil` means to instead return a list of one or more elements of the form `(ifname addr bcast netmask)`<!-- /@w -->. `ifname` is a non-unique string naming the interface. `addr`, `bcast`, and `netmask` are vectors of integers detailing the IP address, broadcast address, and network mask.

Optional argument `family` specified as symbol `ipv4` or `ipv6` restricts the returned information to IPv4 and IPv6 addresses respectively, independently of the value of `full`. Specifying `ipv6` when IPv6 support is not available will result in an error being signaled.

Some examples:

```lisp
(network-interface-list) ⇒
(("vmnet8" .
  [172 16 76 1 0])
 ("vmnet1" .
  [172 16 206 1 0])
 ("lo0" .
  [65152 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0])
 ("lo0" .
  [0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0])
 ("lo0" .
  [127 0 0 1 0]))
```

```lisp
(network-interface-list t) ⇒
(("vmnet8"
  [172 16 76 1 0]
  [172 16 76 255 0]
  [255 255 255 0 0])
 ("vmnet1"
  [172 16 206 1 0]
  [172 16 206 255 0]
  [255 255 255 0 0])
 ("lo0"
  [65152 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0]
  [65152 0 0 0 65535 65535 65535 65535 0]
  [65535 65535 65535 65535 0 0 0 0 0])
 ("lo0"
  [0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0]
  [0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0]
  [65535 65535 65535 65535 65535 65535 65535 65535 0])
 ("lo0"
  [127 0 0 1 0]
  [127 255 255 255 0]
  [255 0 0 0 0]))
```

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **network-interface-info** *ifname*

This function returns information about the network interface named `ifname`. The value is a list of the form `(addr bcast netmask hwaddr flags)`.

### `addr`

The Internet protocol address.

### `bcast`

The broadcast address.

### `netmask`

The network mask.

### `hwaddr`

The layer 2 address (Ethernet MAC address, for instance).

### `flags`

The current flags of the interface.

Note that this function returns only IPv4 information.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **format-network-address** *address \&optional omit-port*

This function converts the Lisp representation of a network address to a string.

A five-element vector `[a b c d p]` represents an IPv4 address `a`.`b`.`c`.`d` and port number `p`. `format-network-address` converts that to the string `"a.b.c.d:p"`.

A nine-element vector `[a b c d e f g h p]` represents an IPv6 address along with a port number. `format-network-address` converts that to the string `"[a:b:c:d:e:f:g:h]:p"`.

If the vector does not include the port number, `p`, or if `omit-port` is non-`nil`, the result does not include the `:p` suffix.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **network-lookup-address-info** *name \&optional family*

This function is used to perform hostname lookups on `name`, which is expected to be an ASCII-only string, otherwise an error is signaled. Call `puny-encode-domain` on `name` first if you wish to lookup internationalized hostnames.

If successful it returns a list of Lisp representations of network addresses, otherwise it returns `nil`. In the latter case, it also displays the error message hopefully explaining what went wrong.

By default both IPv4 and IPv6 lookups are attempted. The optional argument `family` controls this behavior, specifying the symbol `ipv4` or `ipv6` restricts lookups to IPv4 and IPv6 respectively.
