---
slug: Font-Lookup
---

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **x-list-fonts** *name \&optional reference-face frame maximum width*

This function returns a list of available font names that match `name`. `name` should be a string containing a font name in either the Fontconfig, GTK+, or XLFD format (see [Fonts](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/emacs.html#Fonts) in The GNU Emacs Manual). Within an XLFD string, wildcard characters may be used: the ‘`*`’ character matches any substring, and the ‘`?`’ character matches any single character. Case is ignored when matching font names.

If the optional arguments `reference-face` and `frame` are specified, the returned list includes only fonts that are the same size as `reference-face` (a face name) currently is on the frame `frame`.

The optional argument `maximum` sets a limit on how many fonts to return. If it is non-`nil`, then the return value is truncated after the first `maximum` matching fonts. Specifying a small value for `maximum` can make this function much faster, in cases where many fonts match the pattern.

The optional argument `width` specifies a desired font width. If it is non-`nil`, the function only returns those fonts whose characters are (on average) `width` times as wide as `reference-face`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **x-family-fonts** *\&optional family frame*

This function returns a list describing the available fonts for family `family` on `frame`. If `family` is omitted or `nil`, this list applies to all families, and therefore, it contains all available fonts. Otherwise, `family` must be a string; it may contain the wildcards ‘`?`’ and ‘`*`’.

The list describes the display that `frame` is on; if `frame` is omitted or `nil`, it applies to the selected frame’s display (see [Input Focus](Input-Focus)).

Each element in the list is a vector of the following form:

```lisp
[family width point-size weight slant
 fixed-p full registry-and-encoding]
```

The first five elements correspond to face attributes; if you specify these attributes for a face, it will use this font.

The last three elements give additional information about the font. `fixed-p` is non-`nil` if the font is fixed-pitch. `full` is the full name of the font, and `registry-and-encoding` is a string giving the registry and encoding of the font.
