---
slug: Face-Functions
---

Here are additional functions for creating and working with faces.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **face-list**

This function returns a list of all defined face names.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **face-id** *face*

This function returns the *face number* of face `face`. This is a number that uniquely identifies a face at low levels within Emacs. It is seldom necessary to refer to a face by its face number. However, functions that manipulate glyphs, such as `make-glyph-code` and `glyph-face` (see [Glyphs](Glyphs)) access the face numbers internally. Note that the face number is stored as the value of the `face` property of the face symbol, so we recommend not to set that property of a face to any value of your own.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **face-documentation** *face*

This function returns the documentation string of face `face`, or `nil` if none was specified for it.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **face-equal** *face1 face2 \&optional frame*

This returns `t` if the faces `face1` and `face2` have the same attributes for display.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **face-differs-from-default-p** *face \&optional frame*

This returns non-`nil` if the face `face` displays differently from the default face.

A *face alias* provides an equivalent name for a face. You can define a face alias by giving the alias symbol the `face-alias` property, with a value of the target face name. The following example makes `modeline` an alias for the `mode-line` face.

```lisp
(put 'modeline 'face-alias 'mode-line)
```

### <span className="tag macro">`macro`</span> **define-obsolete-face-alias** *obsolete-face current-face when*

This macro defines `obsolete-face` as an alias for `current-face`, and also marks it as obsolete, indicating that it may be removed in future. `when` should be a string indicating when `obsolete-face` was made obsolete (usually a version number string).
