---
slug: Fringe-Size_002fPos
---

The following buffer-local variables control the position and width of fringes in windows showing that buffer.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **fringes-outside-margins**

The fringes normally appear between the display margins and the window text. If the value is non-`nil`, they appear outside the display margins. See [Display Margins](/docs/elisp/Display-Margins).

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **left-fringe-width**

This variable, if non-`nil`, specifies the width of the left fringe in pixels. A value of `nil` means to use the left fringe width from the window’s frame.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **right-fringe-width**

This variable, if non-`nil`, specifies the width of the right fringe in pixels. A value of `nil` means to use the right fringe width from the window’s frame.

Any buffer which does not specify values for these variables uses the values specified by the `left-fringe` and `right-fringe` frame parameters (see [Layout Parameters](/docs/elisp/Layout-Parameters)).

The above variables actually take effect via the function `set-window-buffer` (see [Buffers and Windows](/docs/elisp/Buffers-and-Windows)), which calls `set-window-fringes` as a subroutine. If you change one of these variables, the fringe display is not updated in existing windows showing the buffer, unless you call `set-window-buffer` again in each affected window. You can also use `set-window-fringes` to control the fringe display in individual windows.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **set-window-fringes** *window left \&optional right outside-margins persistent*

This function sets the fringe widths of window `window`. If `window` is `nil`, the selected window is used.

The argument `left` specifies the width in pixels of the left fringe, and likewise `right` for the right fringe. A value of `nil` for either one stands for the default width. If `outside-margins` is non-`nil`, that specifies that fringes should appear outside of the display margins.

If `window` is not large enough to accommodate fringes of the desired width, this leaves the fringes of `window` unchanged.

The values specified here may be later overridden by invoking `set-window-buffer` (see [Buffers and Windows](/docs/elisp/Buffers-and-Windows)) on `window` with its `keep-margins` argument `nil` or omitted. However, if the optional fifth argument `persistent` is non-`nil` and the other arguments are processed successfully, the values specified here unconditionally survive subsequent invocations of `set-window-buffer`. This can be used to permanently turn off fringes in the minibuffer window, consult the description of `set-window-scroll-bars` for an example (see [Scroll Bars](/docs/elisp/Scroll-Bars)).

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **window-fringes** *\&optional window*

This function returns information about the fringes of a window `window`. If `window` is omitted or `nil`, the selected window is used. The value has the form `(left-width right-width outside-margins persistent)`.
