---
slug: Fringe-Bitmaps
---

The *fringe bitmaps* are the actual bitmaps which represent the logical fringe indicators for truncated or continued lines, buffer boundaries, overlay arrows, etc. Each bitmap is represented by a symbol. These symbols are referred to by the variable `fringe-indicator-alist`, which maps fringe indicators to bitmaps (see [Fringe Indicators](/docs/elisp/Fringe-Indicators)), and the variable `fringe-cursor-alist`, which maps fringe cursors to bitmaps (see [Fringe Cursors](/docs/elisp/Fringe-Cursors)).

Lisp programs can also directly display a bitmap in the left or right fringe, by using a `display` property for one of the characters appearing in the line (see [Other Display Specs](/docs/elisp/Other-Display-Specs)). Such a display specification has the form

```lisp
(fringe bitmap [face])
```

`fringe` is either the symbol `left-fringe` or `right-fringe`. `bitmap` is a symbol identifying the bitmap to display. The optional `face` names a face whose foreground and background colors are to be used to display the bitmap, using the attributes of the `fringe` face for colors that `face` didn’t specify. If `face` is omitted, that means to use the attributes of the `default` face for the colors which the `fringe` face didn’t specify. For predictable results that don’t depend on the attributes of the `default` and `fringe` faces, we recommend you never omit `face`, but always provide a specific face. In particular, if you want the bitmap to be always displayed in the `fringe` face, use `fringe` as `face`.

For instance, to display an arrow in the left fringe, using the `warning` face, you could say something like:

```lisp
(overlay-put
 (make-overlay (point) (point))
 'before-string (propertize
                 "x" 'display
                 `(left-fringe right-arrow warning)))
```

Here is a list of the standard fringe bitmaps defined in Emacs, and how they are currently used in Emacs (via `fringe-indicator-alist` and `fringe-cursor-alist`):

### `left-arrow`, `right-arrow`

Used to indicate truncated lines.

### `left-curly-arrow`, `right-curly-arrow`

Used to indicate continued lines.

### `right-triangle`, `left-triangle`

The former is used by overlay arrows. The latter is unused.

### `up-arrow`, `down-arrow`

### `bottom-left-angle`, `bottom-right-angle`

### `top-left-angle`, `top-right-angle`

### `left-bracket`, `right-bracket`

### `empty-line`

Used to indicate buffer boundaries.

### `filled-rectangle`, `hollow-rectangle`

### `filled-square`, `hollow-square`

### `vertical-bar`, `horizontal-bar`

Used for different types of fringe cursors.

### `exclamation-mark`, `question-mark`

Not used by core Emacs features.

The next subsection describes how to define your own fringe bitmaps.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **fringe-bitmaps-at-pos** *\&optional pos window*

This function returns the fringe bitmaps of the display line containing position `pos` in window `window`. The return value has the form `(left right ov)`, where `left` is the symbol for the fringe bitmap in the left fringe (or `nil` if no bitmap), `right` is similar for the right fringe, and `ov` is non-`nil` if there is an overlay arrow in the left fringe.

The value is `nil` if `pos` is not visible in `window`. If `window` is `nil`, that stands for the selected window. If `pos` is `nil`, that stands for the value of point in `window`.
