---
slug: Manipulating-Buttons
---

These are functions for getting and setting properties of buttons. Often these are used by a button’s invocation function to determine what to do.

Where a `button` parameter is specified, it means an object referring to a specific button, either an overlay (for overlay buttons), or a buffer-position or marker (for text property buttons). Such an object is passed as the first argument to a button’s invocation function when it is invoked.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **button-start** *button*

Return the position at which `button` starts.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **button-end** *button*

Return the position at which `button` ends.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **button-get** *button prop*

Get the property of button `button` named `prop`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **button-put** *button prop val*

Set `button`’s `prop` property to `val`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **button-activate** *button \&optional use-mouse-action*

Call `button`’s `action` property (i.e., invoke the function that is the value of that property, passing it the single argument `button`). If `use-mouse-action` is non-`nil`, try to invoke the button’s `mouse-action` property instead of `action`; if the button has no `mouse-action` property, use `action` as normal. If the `button-data` property is present in `button`, use that as the argument for the `action` function instead of `button`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **button-label** *button*

Return `button`’s text label.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **button-type** *button*

Return `button`’s button-type.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **button-has-type-p** *button type*

Return `t` if `button` has button-type `type`, or one of `type`’s subtypes.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **button-at** *pos*

Return the button at position `pos` in the current buffer, or `nil`. If the button at `pos` is a text property button, the return value is a marker pointing to `pos`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **button-type-put** *type prop val*

Set the button-type `type`’s `prop` property to `val`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **button-type-get** *type prop*

Get the property of button-type `type` named `prop`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **button-type-subtype-p** *type supertype*

Return `t` if button-type `type` is a subtype of `supertype`.
