---
slug: Button-Buffer-Commands
---

These are commands and functions for locating and operating on buttons in an Emacs buffer.

`push-button` is the command that a user uses to actually push a button, and is bound by default in the button itself to `RET` and to `mouse-2` using a local keymap in the button’s overlay or text properties. Commands that are useful outside the buttons itself, such as `forward-button` and `backward-button` are additionally available in the keymap stored in `button-buffer-map`; a mode which uses buttons may want to use `button-buffer-map` as a parent keymap for its keymap.

If the button has a non-`nil` `follow-link` property, and `mouse-1-click-follows-link` is set, a quick `mouse-1` click will also activate the `push-button` command. See [Clickable Text](/docs/elisp/Clickable-Text).

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **push-button** *\&optional pos use-mouse-action*

Perform the action specified by a button at location `pos`. `pos` may be either a buffer position or a mouse-event. If `use-mouse-action` is non-`nil`, or `pos` is a mouse-event (see [Mouse Events](/docs/elisp/Mouse-Events)), try to invoke the button’s `mouse-action` property instead of `action`; if the button has no `mouse-action` property, use `action` as normal. `pos` defaults to point, except when `push-button` is invoked interactively as the result of a mouse-event, in which case, the mouse event’s position is used. If there’s no button at `pos`, do nothing and return `nil`, otherwise return `t`.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **forward-button** *n \&optional wrap display-message no-error*

Move to the `n`th next button, or `n`th previous button if `n` is negative. If `n` is zero, move to the start of any button at point. If `wrap` is non-`nil`, moving past either end of the buffer continues from the other end. If `display-message` is non-`nil`, the button’s help-echo string is displayed. Any button with a non-`nil` `skip` property is skipped over. Returns the button found, and signals an error if no buttons can be found. If `no-error` is non-`nil`, return nil instead of signaling the error.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **backward-button** *n \&optional wrap display-message no-error*

Move to the `n`th previous button, or `n`th next button if `n` is negative. If `n` is zero, move to the start of any button at point. If `wrap` is non-`nil`, moving past either end of the buffer continues from the other end. If `display-message` is non-`nil`, the button’s help-echo string is displayed. Any button with a non-`nil` `skip` property is skipped over. Returns the button found, and signals an error if no buttons can be found. If `no-error` is non-`nil`, return nil instead of signaling the error.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **next-button** *pos \&optional count-current*

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **previous-button** *pos \&optional count-current*

Return the next button after (for `next-button`) or before (for `previous-button`) position `pos` in the current buffer. If `count-current` is non-`nil`, count any button at `pos` in the search, instead of starting at the next button.
