---
slug: Glyphs
---

A *glyph* is a graphical symbol which occupies a single character position on the screen. Each glyph is represented in Lisp as a *glyph code*, which specifies a character and optionally a face to display it in (see [Faces](Faces)). The main use of glyph codes is as the entries of display tables (see [Display Tables](Display-Tables)). The following functions are used to manipulate glyph codes:

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **make-glyph-code** *char \&optional face*

This function returns a glyph code representing char `char` with face `face`. If `face` is omitted or `nil`, the glyph uses the default face; in that case, the glyph code is an integer. If `face` is non-`nil`, the glyph code is not necessarily an integer object.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **glyph-char** *glyph*

This function returns the character of glyph code `glyph`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **glyph-face** *glyph*

This function returns face of glyph code `glyph`, or `nil` if `glyph` uses the default face.

You can set up a *glyph table* to change how glyph codes are actually displayed on text terminals. This feature is semi-obsolete; use `glyphless-char-display` instead (see [Glyphless Chars](Glyphless-Chars)).

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **glyph-table**

The value of this variable, if non-`nil`, is the current glyph table. It takes effect only on character terminals; on graphical displays, all glyphs are displayed literally. The glyph table should be a vector whose `g`th element specifies how to display glyph code `g`, where `g` is the glyph code for a glyph whose face is unspecified. Each element should be one of the following:

### `nil`

Display this glyph literally.

### a string

Display this glyph by sending the specified string to the terminal.

### a glyph code

Display the specified glyph code instead.

Any integer glyph code greater than or equal to the length of the glyph table is displayed literally.
