---
slug: Display-Tables
---

A display table is a special-purpose char-table (see [Char-Tables](/docs/elisp/Char_002dTables)), with `display-table` as its subtype, which is used to override the usual character display conventions. This section describes how to make, inspect, and assign elements to a display table object.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **make-display-table**

This creates and returns a display table. The table initially has `nil` in all elements.

The ordinary elements of the display table are indexed by character codes; the element at index `c` says how to display the character code `c`. The value should be `nil` (which means to display the character `c` according to the usual display conventions; see [Usual Display](/docs/elisp/Usual-Display)), or a vector of glyph codes (which means to display the character `c` as those glyphs; see [Glyphs](/docs/elisp/Glyphs)).

**Warning:** if you use the display table to change the display of newline characters, the whole buffer will be displayed as one long line.

The display table also has six *extra slots* which serve special purposes. Here is a table of their meanings; `nil` in any slot means to use the default for that slot, as stated below.

### 0

The glyph for the end of a truncated screen line (the default for this is ‘`$`’). See [Glyphs](/docs/elisp/Glyphs). On graphical terminals, Emacs by default uses arrows in the fringes to indicate truncation, so the display table has no effect, unless you disable the fringes (see [Window Fringes](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/emacs.html#Fringes) in the GNU Emacs Manual).

### 1

The glyph for the end of a continued line (the default is ‘`\`’). On graphical terminals, Emacs by default uses curved arrows in the fringes to indicate continuation, so the display table has no effect, unless you disable the fringes.

### 2

The glyph for indicating a character displayed as an octal character code (the default is ‘`\`’).

### 3

The glyph for indicating a control character (the default is ‘`^`’).

### 4

A vector of glyphs for indicating the presence of invisible lines (the default is ‘`...`’). See [Selective Display](/docs/elisp/Selective-Display).

### 5

The glyph used to draw the border between side-by-side windows (the default is ‘`|`’). See [Splitting Windows](/docs/elisp/Splitting-Windows). This currently has effect only on text terminals; on graphical terminals, if vertical scroll bars are supported and in use, a scroll bar separates the two windows, and if there are no vertical scroll bars and no dividers (see [Window Dividers](/docs/elisp/Window-Dividers)), Emacs uses a thin line to indicate the border.

For example, here is how to construct a display table that mimics the effect of setting `ctl-arrow` to a non-`nil` value (see [Glyphs](/docs/elisp/Glyphs), for the function `make-glyph-code`):

```lisp
(setq disptab (make-display-table))
(dotimes (i 32)
  (or (= i ?\t)
      (= i ?\n)
      (aset disptab i
            (vector (make-glyph-code ?^ 'escape-glyph)
                    (make-glyph-code (+ i 64) 'escape-glyph)))))
(aset disptab 127
      (vector (make-glyph-code ?^ 'escape-glyph)
              (make-glyph-code ?? 'escape-glyph)))))
```

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **display-table-slot** *display-table slot*

This function returns the value of the extra slot `slot` of `display-table`. The argument `slot` may be a number from 0 to 5 inclusive, or a slot name (symbol). Valid symbols are `truncation`, `wrap`, `escape`, `control`, `selective-display`, and `vertical-border`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **set-display-table-slot** *display-table slot value*

This function stores `value` in the extra slot `slot` of `display-table`. The argument `slot` may be a number from 0 to 5 inclusive, or a slot name (symbol). Valid symbols are `truncation`, `wrap`, `escape`, `control`, `selective-display`, and `vertical-border`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **describe-display-table** *display-table*

This function displays a description of the display table `display-table` in a help buffer.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **describe-current-display-table**

This command displays a description of the current display table in a help buffer.
