---
slug: Truncation
---

When a line of text extends beyond the right edge of a window, Emacs can *continue* the line (make it wrap to the next screen line), or *truncate* the line (limit it to one screen line). The additional screen lines used to display a long text line are called *continuation* lines. Continuation is not the same as filling; continuation happens on the screen only, not in the buffer contents, and it breaks a line precisely at the right margin, not at a word boundary. See [Filling](/docs/elisp/Filling).

On a graphical display, tiny arrow images in the window fringes indicate truncated and continued lines (see [Fringes](/docs/elisp/Fringes)). On a text terminal, a ‘`$`’ in the rightmost column of the window indicates truncation; a ‘`\`’ on the rightmost column indicates a line that wraps. (The display table can specify alternate characters to use for this; see [Display Tables](/docs/elisp/Display-Tables)).

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **truncate-lines**

If this buffer-local variable is non-`nil`, lines that extend beyond the right edge of the window are truncated; otherwise, they are continued. As a special exception, the variable `truncate-partial-width-windows` takes precedence in *partial-width* windows (i.e., windows that do not occupy the entire frame width).

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **truncate-partial-width-windows**

This variable controls line truncation in *partial-width* windows. A partial-width window is one that does not occupy the entire frame width (see [Splitting Windows](/docs/elisp/Splitting-Windows)). If the value is `nil`, line truncation is determined by the variable `truncate-lines` (see above). If the value is an integer `n`, lines are truncated if the partial-width window has fewer than `n` columns, regardless of the value of `truncate-lines`; if the partial-width window has `n` or more columns, line truncation is determined by `truncate-lines`. For any other non-`nil` value, lines are truncated in every partial-width window, regardless of the value of `truncate-lines`.

When horizontal scrolling (see [Horizontal Scrolling](/docs/elisp/Horizontal-Scrolling)) is in use in a window, that forces truncation.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **wrap-prefix**

If this buffer-local variable is non-`nil`, it defines a *wrap prefix* which Emacs displays at the start of every continuation line. (If lines are truncated, `wrap-prefix` is never used.) Its value may be a string or an image (see [Other Display Specs](/docs/elisp/Other-Display-Specs)), or a stretch of whitespace such as specified by the `:width` or `:align-to` display properties (see [Specified Space](/docs/elisp/Specified-Space)). The value is interpreted in the same way as a `display` text property. See [Display Property](/docs/elisp/Display-Property).

A wrap prefix may also be specified for regions of text, using the `wrap-prefix` text or overlay property. This takes precedence over the `wrap-prefix` variable. See [Special Properties](/docs/elisp/Special-Properties).

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **line-prefix**

If this buffer-local variable is non-`nil`, it defines a *line prefix* which Emacs displays at the start of every non-continuation line. Its value may be a string or an image (see [Other Display Specs](/docs/elisp/Other-Display-Specs)), or a stretch of whitespace such as specified by the `:width` or `:align-to` display properties (see [Specified Space](/docs/elisp/Specified-Space)). The value is interpreted in the same way as a `display` text property. See [Display Property](/docs/elisp/Display-Property).

A line prefix may also be specified for regions of text using the `line-prefix` text or overlay property. This takes precedence over the `line-prefix` variable. See [Special Properties](/docs/elisp/Special-Properties).
