---
slug: Echo-Area-Customization
---

These variables control details of how the echo area works.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **cursor-in-echo-area**

This variable controls where the cursor appears when a message is displayed in the echo area. If it is non-`nil`, then the cursor appears at the end of the message. Otherwise, the cursor appears at point—not in the echo area at all.

The value is normally `nil`; Lisp programs bind it to `t` for brief periods of time.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **echo-area-clear-hook**

This normal hook is run whenever the echo area is cleared—either by `(message nil)` or for any other reason.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **echo-keystrokes**

This variable determines how much time should elapse before command characters echo. Its value must be a number, and specifies the number of seconds to wait before echoing. If the user types a prefix key (such as `C-x`) and then delays this many seconds before continuing, the prefix key is echoed in the echo area. (Once echoing begins in a key sequence, all subsequent characters in the same key sequence are echoed immediately.)

If the value is zero, then command input is not echoed.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **message-truncate-lines**

Normally, displaying a long message resizes the echo area to display the entire message. But if the variable `message-truncate-lines` is non-`nil`, the echo area does not resize, and the message is truncated to fit it.

The variable `max-mini-window-height`, which specifies the maximum height for resizing minibuffer windows, also applies to the echo area (which is really a special use of the minibuffer window; see [Minibuffer Windows](/docs/elisp/Minibuffer-Windows)).
