---
slug: Logging-Messages
---

Almost all the messages displayed in the echo area are also recorded in the `*Messages*` buffer so that the user can refer back to them. This includes all the messages that are output with `message`. By default, this buffer is read-only and uses the major mode `messages-buffer-mode`. Nothing prevents the user from killing the `*Messages*` buffer, but the next display of a message recreates it. Any Lisp code that needs to access the `*Messages*` buffer directly and wants to ensure that it exists should use the function `messages-buffer`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **messages-buffer**

This function returns the `*Messages*` buffer. If it does not exist, it creates it, and switches it to `messages-buffer-mode`.

### <span className="tag useroption">`user option`</span> **message-log-max**

This variable specifies how many lines to keep in the `*Messages*` buffer. The value `t` means there is no limit on how many lines to keep. The value `nil` disables message logging entirely. Here’s how to display a message and prevent it from being logged:

```lisp
(let (message-log-max)
  (message …))
```

To make `*Messages*` more convenient for the user, the logging facility combines successive identical messages. It also combines successive related messages for the sake of two cases: question followed by answer, and a series of progress messages.

A question followed by an answer has two messages like the ones produced by `y-or-n-p`: the first is ‘`question`’, and the second is ‘`question...answer`’. The first message conveys no additional information beyond what’s in the second, so logging the second message discards the first from the log.

A series of progress messages has successive messages like those produced by `make-progress-reporter`. They have the form ‘`base...how-far`’, where `base` is the same each time, while `how-far` varies. Logging each message in the series discards the previous one, provided they are consecutive.

The functions `make-progress-reporter` and `y-or-n-p` don’t have to do anything special to activate the message log combination feature. It operates whenever two consecutive messages are logged that share a common prefix ending in ‘`...`’.
