---
slug: Sound-Output
---

To play sound using Emacs, use the function `play-sound`. Only certain systems are supported; if you call `play-sound` on a system which cannot really do the job, it gives an error.

The sound must be stored as a file in RIFF-WAVE format (‘`.wav`’) or Sun Audio format (‘`.au`’).

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **play-sound** *sound*

This function plays a specified sound. The argument, `sound`, has the form `(sound properties...)`, where the `properties` consist of alternating keywords (particular symbols recognized specially) and values corresponding to them.

Here is a table of the keywords that are currently meaningful in `sound`, and their meanings:

### `:file file`

This specifies the file containing the sound to play. If the file name is not absolute, it is expanded against the directory `data-directory`.

### `:data data`

This specifies the sound to play without need to refer to a file. The value, `data`, should be a string containing the same bytes as a sound file. We recommend using a unibyte string.

### `:volume volume`

This specifies how loud to play the sound. It should be a number in the range of 0 to 1. The default is to use whatever volume has been specified before.

### `:device device`

This specifies the system device on which to play the sound, as a string. The default device is system-dependent.

Before actually playing the sound, `play-sound` calls the functions in the list `play-sound-functions`. Each function is called with one argument, `sound`.

### <span className="tag command">`command`</span> **play-sound-file** *file \&optional volume device*

This function is an alternative interface to playing a sound `file` specifying an optional `volume` and `device`.

### <span className="tag variable">`variable`</span> **play-sound-functions**

A list of functions to be called before playing a sound. Each function is called with one argument, a property list that describes the sound.
