---
slug: Hash-Access
---

This section describes the functions for accessing and storing associations in a hash table. In general, any Lisp object can be used as a hash key, unless the comparison method imposes limits. Any Lisp object can also be used as the value.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **gethash** *key table \&optional default*

This function looks up `key` in `table`, and returns its associated `value`—or `default`, if `key` has no association in `table`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **puthash** *key value table*

This function enters an association for `key` in `table`, with value `value`. If `key` already has an association in `table`, `value` replaces the old associated value.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **remhash** *key table*

This function removes the association for `key` from `table`, if there is one. If `key` has no association, `remhash` does nothing.

**Common Lisp note:** In Common Lisp, `remhash` returns non-`nil` if it actually removed an association and `nil` otherwise. In Emacs Lisp, `remhash` always returns `nil`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **clrhash** *table*

This function removes all the associations from hash table `table`, so that it becomes empty. This is also called *clearing* the hash table.

**Common Lisp note:** In Common Lisp, `clrhash` returns the empty `table`. In Emacs Lisp, it returns `nil`.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **maphash** *function table*

This function calls `function` once for each of the associations in `table`. The function `function` should accept two arguments—a `key` listed in `table`, and its associated `value`. `maphash` returns `nil`.
