---
slug: Symbol-Components
---

Each symbol has four components (or “cells"), each of which references another object:

### Print name

The symbol’s name.

### Value

The symbol’s current value as a variable.

### Function

The symbol’s function definition. It can also hold a symbol, a keymap, or a keyboard macro.

### Property list

The symbol’s property list.

The print name cell always holds a string, and cannot be changed. Each of the other three cells can be set to any Lisp object.

The print name cell holds the string that is the name of a symbol. Since symbols are represented textually by their names, it is important not to have two symbols with the same name. The Lisp reader ensures this: every time it reads a symbol, it looks for an existing symbol with the specified name before it creates a new one. To get a symbol’s name, use the function `symbol-name` (see [Creating Symbols](/docs/elisp/Creating-Symbols)).

The value cell holds a symbol’s value as a variable, which is what you get if the symbol itself is evaluated as a Lisp expression. See [Variables](/docs/elisp/Variables), for details about how values are set and retrieved, including complications such as *local bindings* and *scoping rules*. Most symbols can have any Lisp object as a value, but certain special symbols have values that cannot be changed; these include `nil` and `t`, and any symbol whose name starts with ‘`:`’ (those are called *keywords*). See [Constant Variables](/docs/elisp/Constant-Variables).

The function cell holds a symbol’s function definition. Often, we refer to “the function `foo`" when we really mean the function stored in the function cell of `foo`; we make the distinction explicit only when necessary. Typically, the function cell is used to hold a function (see [Functions](/docs/elisp/Functions)) or a macro (see [Macros](/docs/elisp/Macros)). However, it can also be used to hold a symbol (see [Function Indirection](/docs/elisp/Function-Indirection)), keyboard macro (see [Keyboard Macros](/docs/elisp/Keyboard-Macros)), keymap (see [Keymaps](/docs/elisp/Keymaps)), or autoload object (see [Autoloading](/docs/elisp/Autoloading)). To get the contents of a symbol’s function cell, use the function `symbol-function` (see [Function Cells](/docs/elisp/Function-Cells)).

The property list cell normally should hold a correctly formatted property list. To get a symbol’s property list, use the function `symbol-plist`. See [Symbol Properties](/docs/elisp/Symbol-Properties).

The function cell or the value cell may be *void*, which means that the cell does not reference any object. (This is not the same thing as holding the symbol `void`, nor the same as holding the symbol `nil`.) Examining a function or value cell that is void results in an error, such as ‘`Symbol's value as variable is void`’.

Because each symbol has separate value and function cells, variables names and function names do not conflict. For example, the symbol `buffer-file-name` has a value (the name of the file being visited in the current buffer) as well as a function definition (a primitive function that returns the name of the file):

```lisp
buffer-file-name
     ⇒ "/gnu/elisp/symbols.texi"
(symbol-function 'buffer-file-name)
     ⇒ #<subr buffer-file-name>
```
