---
slug: Using-capture
---

### `M-x org-capture` (`org-capture`)

Display the capture templates menu. If you have templates defined (see [Capture templates](Capture-templates)), it offers these templates for selection or use a new Org outline node as the default template. It inserts the template into the target file and switch to an indirect buffer narrowed to this new node. You may then insert the information you want.

### `C-c C-c` (`org-capture-finalize`)

Once you have finished entering information into the capture buffer, `C-c C-c` returns you to the window configuration before the capture process, so that you can resume your work without further distraction. When called with a prefix argument, finalize and then jump to the captured item.

### `C-c C-w` (`org-capture-refile`)

Finalize the capture process by refiling the note to a different place (see [Refile and Copy](Refile-and-Copy)). Please realize that this is a normal refiling command that will be executed—so point position at the moment you run this command is important. If you have inserted a tree with a parent and children, first move point back to the parent. Any prefix argument given to this command is passed on to the `org-refile` command.

### `C-c C-k` (`org-capture-kill`)

Abort the capture process and return to the previous state.

You can also call `org-capture` in a special way from the agenda, using the `k c` key combination. With this access, any timestamps inserted by the selected capture template defaults to the date at point in the agenda, rather than to the current date.

To find the locations of the last stored capture, use `org-capture` with prefix commands:

### `C-u M-x org-capture`

Visit the target location of a capture template. You get to select the template in the usual way.

### `C-u C-u M-x org-capture`

Visit the last stored capture item in its buffer.

You can also jump to the bookmark `org-capture-last-stored`, which is automatically created unless you set `org-capture-bookmark` to `nil`.

To insert the capture at point in an Org buffer, call `org-capture` with a `C-0` prefix argument.
