---
slug: Attachment-defaults-and-dispatcher
---

By default, Org attach uses ID properties when adding attachments to outline nodes. This makes working with attachments fully automated. There is no decision needed for folder-name or location. ID-based directories are by default located in the ‘`data/`’ directory, which lives in the same directory where your Org file lives[^1].

When attachments are made using `org-attach` a default tag ‘`ATTACH`’ is added to the node that gets the attachments.

For more control over the setup, see [Attachment options](/docs/org/Attachment-options).

The following commands deal with attachments:

### `C-c C-a` (`org-attach`)

The dispatcher for commands related to the attachment system. After these keys, a list of commands is displayed and you must press an additional key to select a command:

### `a` (`org-attach-attach`)

Select a file and move it into the task’s attachment directory. The file is copied, moved, or linked, depending on `org-attach-method`. Note that hard links are not supported on all systems.

### `c`/`m`/`l`

Attach a file using the copy/move/link method. Note that hard links are not supported on all systems.

### `b` (`org-attach-buffer`)

Select a buffer and save it as a file in the task’s attachment directory.

### `n` (`org-attach-new`)

Create a new attachment as an Emacs buffer.

### `z` (`org-attach-sync`)

Synchronize the current task with its attachment directory, in case you added attachments yourself.

### `o` (`org-attach-open`)

Open current task’s attachment. If there is more than one, prompt for a file name first. Opening follows the rules set by `org-file-apps`. For more details, see the information on following hyperlinks (see [Handling Links](/docs/org/Handling-Links)).

### `O` (`org-attach-open-in-emacs`)

Also open the attachment, but force opening the file in Emacs.

### `f` (`org-attach-reveal`)

Open the current task’s attachment directory.

### `F` (`org-attach-reveal-in-emacs`)

Also open the directory, but force using Dired in Emacs.

### `d` (`org-attach-delete-one`)

Select and delete a single attachment.

### `D` (`org-attach-delete-all`)

Delete all of a task’s attachments. A safer way is to open the directory in Dired and delete from there.

### `s` (`org-attach-set-directory`)

Set a specific directory as the entry’s attachment directory. This works by putting the directory path into the ‘`DIR`’ property.

### `S` (`org-attach-unset-directory`)

Remove the attachment directory. This command removes the ‘`DIR`’ property and asks the user to either move content inside that folder, if an ‘`ID`’ property is set, delete the content, or to leave the attachment directory as is but no longer attached to the outline node.

[^1]: If you move entries or Org files from one directory to another, you may want to configure `org-attach-id-dir` to contain an absolute path.
