---
slug: Matching-tags-and-properties
---

If headlines in the agenda files are marked with *tags* (see [Tags](/docs/org/Tags)), or have properties (see [Properties and Columns](/docs/org/Properties-and-Columns)), you can select headlines based on this metadata and collect them into an agenda buffer. The match syntax described here also applies when creating sparse trees with `C-c / m`.

### `M-x org-agenda m` (`org-tags-view`)

Produce a list of all headlines that match a given set of tags. The command prompts for a selection criterion, which is a boolean logic expression with tags, like ‘`+work+urgent-withboss`’ or ‘`work|home`’ (see [Tags](/docs/org/Tags)). If you often need a specific search, define a custom command for it (see [Agenda Dispatcher](/docs/org/Agenda-Dispatcher)).

### `M-x org-agenda M` (`org-tags-view`)

Like `m`, but only select headlines that are also TODO items and force checking subitems (see the variable `org-tags-match-list-sublevels`). To exclude scheduled/deadline items, see the variable `org-agenda-tags-todo-honor-ignore-options`. Matching specific TODO keywords together with a tags match is also possible, see [Tag Searches](/docs/org/Tag-Searches).

The commands available in the tags list are described in [Agenda Commands](/docs/org/Agenda-Commands).

A search string can use Boolean operators ‘`&`’ for AND and ‘`|`’ for OR. ‘`&`’ binds more strongly than ‘`|`’. Parentheses are currently not implemented. Each element in the search is either a tag, a regular expression matching tags, or an expression like ‘`PROPERTY OPERATOR VALUE`’ with a comparison operator, accessing a property value. Each element may be preceded by ‘`-`’ to select against it, and ‘`+`’ is syntactic sugar for positive selection. The AND operator ‘`&`’ is optional when ‘`+`’ or ‘`-`’ is present. Here are some examples, using only tags.

### ‘`+work-boss`’

Select headlines tagged ‘`work`’, but discard those also tagged ‘`boss`’.

### ‘`work|laptop`’

Selects lines tagged ‘`work`’ or ‘`laptop`’.

### ‘`work|laptop+night`’

Like before, but require the ‘`laptop`’ lines to be tagged also ‘`night`’.

Instead of a tag, you may also specify a regular expression enclosed in curly braces. For example, ‘`work+{^boss.*}`’ matches headlines that contain the tag ‘`:work:`’ and any tag *starting* with ‘`boss`’.

Group tags (see [Tag Hierarchy](/docs/org/Tag-Hierarchy)) are expanded as regular expressions. E.g., if ‘`work`’ is a group tag for the group ‘`:work:lab:conf:`’, then searching for ‘`work`’ also searches for ‘`{\(?:work\|lab\|conf\)}`’ and searching for ‘`-work`’ searches for all headlines but those with one of the tags in the group (i.e., ‘`-{\(?:work\|lab\|conf\)}`’).

You may also test for properties (see [Properties and Columns](/docs/org/Properties-and-Columns)) at the same time as matching tags. The properties may be real properties, or special properties that represent other metadata (see [Special Properties](/docs/org/Special-Properties)). For example, the property ‘`TODO`’ represents the TODO keyword of the entry. Or, the property ‘`LEVEL`’ represents the level of an entry. So searching ‘`+LEVEL=3+boss-TODO​="DONE"`’ lists all level three headlines that have the tag ‘`boss`’ and are *not* marked with the TODO keyword ‘`DONE`’. In buffers with `org-odd-levels-only` set, ‘`LEVEL`’ does not count the number of stars, but ‘`LEVEL=2`’ corresponds to 3 stars etc.

Here are more examples:

### ‘`work+TODO​="WAITING"`’

Select ‘`work`’-tagged TODO lines with the specific TODO keyword ‘`WAITING`’.

### ‘`work+TODO​="WAITING"|home+TODO​="WAITING"`’

Waiting tasks both at work and at home.

When matching properties, a number of different operators can be used to test the value of a property. Here is a complex example:

```lisp
+work-boss+PRIORITY="A"+Coffee="unlimited"+Effort<2
         +With={Sarah|Denny}+SCHEDULED>="<2008-10-11>"
```

The type of comparison depends on how the comparison value is written:

*   If the comparison value is a plain number, a numerical comparison is done, and the allowed operators are ‘`<`’, ‘`=`’, ‘`>`’, ‘`<=`’, ‘`>=`’, and ‘`<>`’.
*   If the comparison value is enclosed in double-quotes, a string comparison is done, and the same operators are allowed.
*   If the comparison value is enclosed in double-quotes *and* angular brackets (like ‘`DEADLINE<​="<2008-12-24 18:30>"`’), both values are assumed to be date/time specifications in the standard Org way, and the comparison is done accordingly. Valid values also include ‘`"<now>"`’ for now (including time), ‘`"<today>"`’, and ‘`"<tomorrow>"`’ for these days at 0:00 hours, i.e., without a time specification. You can also use strings like ‘`"<+5d>"`’ or ‘`"<-2m>"`’ with units ‘`d`’, ‘`w`’, ‘`m`’, and ‘`y`’ for day, week, month, and year, respectively.
*   If the comparison value is enclosed in curly braces, a regexp match is performed, with ‘`=`’ meaning that the regexp matches the property value, and ‘`<>`’ meaning that it does not match.

So the search string in the example finds entries tagged ‘`work`’ but not ‘`boss`’, which also have a priority value ‘`A`’, a ‘`Coffee`’ property with the value ‘`unlimited`’, an ‘`EFFORT`’ property that is numerically smaller than 2, a ‘`With`’ property that is matched by the regular expression ‘`Sarah|Denny`’, and that are scheduled on or after October 11, 2008.

You can configure Org mode to use property inheritance during a search, but beware that this can slow down searches considerably. See [Property Inheritance](/docs/org/Property-Inheritance), for details.

For backward compatibility, and also for typing speed, there is also a different way to test TODO states in a search. For this, terminate the tags/property part of the search string (which may include several terms connected with ‘`|`’) with a ‘`/`’ and then specify a Boolean expression just for TODO keywords. The syntax is then similar to that for tags, but should be applied with care: for example, a positive selection on several TODO keywords cannot meaningfully be combined with boolean AND. However, *negative selection* combined with AND can be meaningful. To make sure that only lines are checked that actually have any TODO keyword (resulting in a speed-up), use `M-x org-agenda M`, or equivalently start the TODO part after the slash with ‘`!`’. Using `M-x org-agenda M` or ‘`/!`’ does not match TODO keywords in a DONE state. Examples:

### ‘`work/WAITING`’

Same as ‘`work+TODO​="WAITING"`’.

### ‘`work/!-WAITING-NEXT`’

Select ‘`work`’-tagged TODO lines that are neither ‘`WAITING`’ nor ‘`NEXT`’.

### ‘`work/!+WAITING|+NEXT`’

Select ‘`work`’-tagged TODO lines that are either ‘`WAITING`’ or ‘`NEXT`’.
