---
slug: LaTeX-fragments
---

Org mode can contain LaTeX math fragments, and it supports ways to process these for several export back-ends. When exporting to LaTeX, the code is left as it is. When exporting to HTML, Org can use either [MathJax](http://www.mathjax.org/) (see [Math formatting in HTML export](Math-formatting-in-HTML-export)) or transcode the math into images (see [Previewing LaTeX fragments](Previewing-LaTeX-fragments)).

LaTeX fragments do not need any special marking at all. The following snippets are identified as LaTeX source code:

*   Environments of any kind[^1]. The only requirement is that the ‘`\begin`’ statement appears on a new line, preceded by only whitespace.
*   Text within the usual LaTeX math delimiters. To avoid conflicts with currency specifications, single ‘`$`’ characters are only recognized as math delimiters if the enclosed text contains at most two line breaks, is directly attached to the ‘`$`’ characters with no whitespace in between, and if the closing ‘`$`’ is followed by whitespace, punctuation or a dash. For the other delimiters, there is no such restriction, so when in doubt, use ‘`\(...\)`’ as inline math delimiters.

For example:

```lisp
\begin{equation}                        % arbitrary environments,
x=\sqrt{b}                              % even tables, figures
\end{equation}                          % etc

If $a^2=b$ and \( b=2 \), then the solution must be
either $$ a=+\sqrt{2} $$ or \[ a=-\sqrt{2} \].
```

LaTeX processing can be configured with the variable `org-export-with-latex`. The default setting is `t` which means MathJax for HTML, and no processing for ASCII and LaTeX back-ends. You can also set this variable on a per-file basis using one of these lines:

|                             |                                            |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| ‘`#+OPTIONS: tex:t`’        | Do the right thing automatically (MathJax) |
| ‘`#+OPTIONS: tex:nil`’      | Do not process LaTeX fragments at all      |
| ‘`#+OPTIONS: tex:verbatim`’ | Verbatim export, for jsMath or so          |

[^1]: When MathJax is used, only the environments recognized by MathJax are processed. When dvipng, dvisvgm, or ImageMagick suite is used to create images, any LaTeX environment is handled.
