---
slug: Literal-Examples
---

You can include literal examples that should not be subjected to markup. Such examples are typeset in monospace, so this is well suited for source code and similar examples.

```lisp
#+BEGIN_EXAMPLE
  Some example from a text file.
#+END_EXAMPLE
```

There is one limitation, however. You must insert a comma right before lines starting with either ‘`*`’, ‘`,*`’, ‘`#+`’ or ‘`,#+`’, as those may be interpreted as outlines nodes or some other special syntax. Org transparently strips these additional commas whenever it accesses the contents of the block.

```lisp
#+BEGIN_EXAMPLE
,* I am no real headline
#+END_EXAMPLE
```

For simplicity when using small examples, you can also start the example lines with a colon followed by a space. There may also be additional whitespace before the colon:

```lisp
Here is an example
   : Some example from a text file.
```

If the example is source code from a programming language, or any other text that can be marked up by Font Lock in Emacs, you can ask for the example to look like the fontified Emacs buffer[^1]. This is done with the code block, where you also need to specify the name of the major mode that should be used to fontify the example[^2], see [Structure Templates](/docs/org/Structure-Templates) for shortcuts to easily insert code blocks.

```lisp
#+BEGIN_SRC emacs-lisp
  (defun org-xor (a b)
    "Exclusive or."
    (if a (not b) b))
 #+END_SRC
```

Both in ‘`example`’ and in ‘`src`’ snippets, you can add a ‘`-n`’ switch to the end of the ‘`#+BEGIN`’ line, to get the lines of the example numbered. The ‘`-n`’ takes an optional numeric argument specifying the starting line number of the block. If you use a ‘`+n`’ switch, the numbering from the previous numbered snippet is continued in the current one. The ‘`+n`’ switch can also take a numeric argument. This adds the value of the argument to the last line of the previous block to determine the starting line number.

```lisp
#+BEGIN_SRC emacs-lisp -n 20
  ;; This exports with line number 20.
  (message "This is line 21")
#+END_SRC

#+BEGIN_SRC emacs-lisp +n 10
  ;; This is listed as line 31.
  (message "This is line 32")
#+END_SRC
```

In literal examples, Org interprets strings like ‘`(ref:name)`’ as labels, and use them as targets for special hyperlinks like ‘`[[(name)]]`’—i.e., the reference name enclosed in single parenthesis. In HTML, hovering the mouse over such a link remote-highlights the corresponding code line, which is kind of cool.

You can also add a ‘`-r`’ switch which *removes* the labels from the source code[^3]. With the ‘`-n`’ switch, links to these references are labeled by the line numbers from the code listing. Otherwise links use the labels with no parentheses. Here is an example:

```lisp
#+BEGIN_SRC emacs-lisp -n -r
  (save-excursion                 (ref:sc)
     (goto-char (point-min))      (ref:jump)
#+END_SRC
In line [[(sc)]] we remember the current position. [[(jump)][Line (jump)]]
jumps to point-min.
```

Source code and examples may be *indented* in order to align nicely with the surrounding text, and in particular with plain list structure (see [Plain Lists](/docs/org/Plain-Lists)). By default, Org only retains the relative indentation between lines, e.g., when exporting the contents of the block. However, you can use the ‘`-i`’ switch to also preserve the global indentation, if it does matter. See [Editing Source Code](/docs/org/Editing-Source-Code).

If the syntax for the label format conflicts with the language syntax, use a ‘`-l`’ switch to change the format, for example

```lisp
#+BEGIN_SRC pascal -n -r -l "((%s))"
```

See also the variable `org-coderef-label-format`.

HTML export also allows examples to be published as text areas (see [Text areas in HTML export](/docs/org/Text-areas-in-HTML-export)).

Because the ‘`#+BEGIN`’ … ‘`#+END`’ patterns need to be added so often, a shortcut is provided (see [Structure Templates](/docs/org/Structure-Templates)).

### `C-c '` (`org-edit-special`)

Edit the source code example at point in its native mode. This works by switching to a temporary buffer with the source code. You need to exit by pressing `C-c '` again. The edited version then replaces the old version in the Org buffer. Fixed-width regions—where each line starts with a colon followed by a space—are edited using Artist mode[^4] to allow creating ASCII drawings easily. Using this command in an empty line creates a new fixed-width region.

Calling `org-store-link` (see [Handling Links](/docs/org/Handling-Links)) while editing a source code example in a temporary buffer created with `C-c '` prompts for a label. Make sure that it is unique in the current buffer, and insert it with the proper formatting like ‘`(ref:label)`’ at the end of the current line. Then the label is stored as a link ‘`(label)`’, for retrieval with `C-c C-l`.

[^1]: This works automatically for the HTML backend (it requires version 1.34 of the ‘`htmlize.el`’ package, which you need to install). Fontified code chunks in LaTeX can be achieved using either the [listings](https://www.ctan.org/pkg/listings) package or the [minted](https://www.ctan.org/pkg/minted) package. Refer to `org-export-latex-listings` for details.

[^2]: Source code in code blocks may also be evaluated either interactively or on export. See [Working with Source Code](/docs/org/Working-with-Source-Code) for more information on evaluating code blocks.

[^3]: Adding ‘`-k`’ to ‘`-n -r`’ *keeps* the labels in the source code while using line numbers for the links, which might be useful to explain those in an Org mode example code.

[^4]: You may select a different mode with the variable `org-edit-fixed-width-region-mode`.
