---
slug: Tables-in-LaTeX-export
---

The LaTeX export back-end can pass several LaTeX attributes for table contents and layout. Besides specifying a label (see [Internal Links](/docs/org/Internal-Links)) and a caption (see [Captions](/docs/org/Captions)), the other valid LaTeX attributes include:

### ‘`:mode`’

The LaTeX export back-end wraps the table differently depending on the mode for accurate rendering of math symbols. Mode is either ‘`table`’, ‘`math`’, ‘`inline-math`’ or ‘`verbatim`’.

For ‘`math`’ or ‘`inline-math`’ mode, LaTeX export back-end wraps the table in a math environment, but every cell in it is exported as-is. The LaTeX export back-end determines the default mode from `org-latex-default-table-mode`. The LaTeX export back-end merges contiguous tables in the same mode into a single environment.

### ‘`:environment`’

Set the default LaTeX table environment for the LaTeX export back-end to use when exporting Org tables. Common LaTeX table environments are provided by these packages: tabularx, longtable, array, tabu, and bmatrix. For packages, such as tabularx and tabu, or any newer replacements, include them in the `org-latex-packages-alist` variable so the LaTeX export back-end can insert the appropriate load package headers in the converted LaTeX file. Look in the docstring for the `org-latex-packages-alist` variable for configuring these packages for LaTeX snippet previews, if any.

### ‘`:caption`’

Use ‘`CAPTION`’ keyword to set a simple caption for a table (see [Captions](/docs/org/Captions)). For custom captions, use ‘`:caption`’ attribute, which accepts raw LaTeX code. ‘`:caption`’ value overrides ‘`CAPTION`’ value.

### ‘`:float`’

### ‘`:placement`’

The table environments by default are not floats in LaTeX. To make them floating objects use ‘`:float`’ with one of the following options: ‘`sideways`’, ‘`multicolumn`’, ‘`t`’, and ‘`nil`’.

LaTeX floats can also have additional layout ‘`:placement`’ attributes. These are the usual ‘`[h t b p ! H]`’ permissions specified in square brackets. Note that for ‘`:float sideways`’ tables, the LaTeX export back-end ignores ‘`:placement`’ attributes.

### ‘`:align`’

### ‘`:font`’

### ‘`:width`’

The LaTeX export back-end uses these attributes for regular tables to set their alignments, fonts, and widths.

### ‘`:spread`’

When ‘`:spread`’ is non-`nil`, the LaTeX export back-end spreads or shrinks the table by the ‘`:width`’ for tabu and longtabu environments. ‘`:spread`’ has no effect if ‘`:width`’ is not set.

### ‘`:booktabs`’

### ‘`:center`’

### ‘`:rmlines`’

All three commands are toggles. ‘`:booktabs`’ brings in modern typesetting enhancements to regular tables. The booktabs package has to be loaded through `org-latex-packages-alist`. ‘`:center`’ is for centering the table. ‘`:rmlines`’ removes all but the very first horizontal line made of ASCII characters from “table.el" tables only.

### ‘`:math-prefix`’

### ‘`:math-suffix`’

### ‘`:math-arguments`’

The LaTeX export back-end inserts ‘`:math-prefix`’ string value in a math environment before the table. The LaTeX export back-end inserts ‘`:math-suffix`’ string value in a math environment after the table. The LaTeX export back-end inserts ‘`:math-arguments`’ string value between the macro name and the table’s contents. ‘`:math-arguments`’ comes in use for matrix macros that require more than one argument, such as ‘`qbordermatrix`’.

LaTeX table attributes help formatting tables for a wide range of situations, such as matrix product or spanning multiple pages:

```lisp
#+ATTR_LATEX: :environment longtable :align l|lp{3cm}r|l
| ... | ... |
| ... | ... |

#+ATTR_LATEX: :mode math :environment bmatrix :math-suffix \times
| a | b |
| c | d |
#+ATTR_LATEX: :mode math :environment bmatrix
| 1 | 2 |
| 3 | 4 |
```

Set the caption with the LaTeX command ‘`\bicaption{HeadingA}{HeadingB}`’:

```lisp
#+ATTR_LATEX: :caption \bicaption{HeadingA}{HeadingB}
| ... | ... |
| ... | ... |
```
