---
slug: LaTeX-header-and-sectioning
---

The LaTeX export back-end converts the first three of Org’s outline levels into LaTeX headlines. The remaining Org levels are exported as lists. To change this globally for the cut-off point between levels and lists, (see [Export Settings](Export-Settings)).

By default, the LaTeX export back-end uses the *article* class.

To change the default class globally, edit `org-latex-default-class`. To change the default class locally in an Org file, add option lines ‘`#+LATEX_CLASS: myclass`’. To change the default class for just a part of the Org file, set a sub-tree property, ‘`EXPORT_LATEX_CLASS`’. The class name entered here must be valid member of `org-latex-classes`. This variable defines a header template for each class into which the exporter splices the values of `org-latex-default-packages-alist` and `org-latex-packages-alist`. Use the same three variables to define custom sectioning or custom classes.

The LaTeX export back-end sends the ‘`LATEX_CLASS_OPTIONS`’ keyword and ‘`EXPORT_LATEX_CLASS_OPTIONS`’ property as options to the LaTeX `\documentclass` macro. The options and the syntax for specifying them, including enclosing them in square brackets, follow LaTeX conventions.

```lisp
#+LATEX_CLASS_OPTIONS: [a4paper,11pt,twoside,twocolumn]
```

The LaTeX export back-end appends values from ‘`LATEX_HEADER`’ and ‘`LATEX_HEADER_EXTRA`’ keywords to the LaTeX header. The docstring for `org-latex-classes` explains in more detail. Also note that LaTeX export back-end does not append ‘`LATEX_HEADER_EXTRA`’ to the header when previewing LaTeX snippets (see [Previewing LaTeX fragments](Previewing-LaTeX-fragments)).

A sample Org file with the above headers:

```lisp
#+LATEX_CLASS: article
#+LATEX_CLASS_OPTIONS: [a4paper]
#+LATEX_HEADER: \usepackage{xyz}

* Headline 1
  some text
* Headline 2
  some more text
```
