---
slug: Extending-ODT-export
---

The ODT export back-end can produce documents in other formats besides ODT using a specialized ODT converter process. Its common interface works with popular converters to produce formats such as ‘`doc`’, or convert a document from one format, say ‘`csv`’, to another format, say ‘`xls`’.

Customize `org-odt-convert-process` variable to point to ‘`unoconv`’, which is the ODT’s preferred converter. Working installations of LibreOffice would already have ‘`unoconv`’ installed. Alternatively, other converters may be substituted here. See [Configuring a document converter](/docs/org/Configuring-a-document-converter).

## Automatically exporting to other formats

If ODT format is just an intermediate step to get to other formats, such as ‘`doc`’, ‘`docx`’, ‘`rtf`’, or ‘`pdf`’, etc., then extend the ODT export back-end to directly produce that format. Specify the final format in the `org-odt-preferred-output-format` variable. This is one way to extend (see [ODT export commands](/docs/org/ODT-export-commands)).

## Converting between document formats

The Org export back-end is made to be inter-operable with a wide range of text document format converters. Newer generation converters, such as LibreOffice and Pandoc, can handle hundreds of formats at once. Org provides a consistent interaction with whatever converter is installed. Here are some generic commands:

### `M-x org-odt-convert`

Convert an existing document from one format to another. With a prefix argument, opens the newly produced file.
