---
slug: Headings-and-sectioning-structure
---

The Texinfo export back-end uses a pre-defined scheme to convert Org headlines to equivalent Texinfo structuring commands. A scheme like this maps top-level headlines to numbered chapters tagged as `@chapter` and lower-level headlines to unnumbered chapters tagged as `@unnumbered`. To override such mappings to introduce `@part` or other Texinfo structuring commands, define a new class in `org-texinfo-classes`. Activate the new class with the ‘`TEXINFO_CLASS`’ keyword. When no new class is defined and activated, the Texinfo export back-end defaults to the `org-texinfo-default-class`.

If an Org headline’s level has no associated Texinfo structuring command, or is below a certain threshold (see [Export Settings](/docs/org/Export-Settings)), then the Texinfo export back-end makes it into a list item.

The Texinfo export back-end makes any headline with a non-`nil` ‘`APPENDIX`’ property into an appendix. This happens independent of the Org headline level or the ‘`TEXINFO_CLASS`’ keyword.

The Texinfo export back-end creates a menu entry after the Org headline for each regular sectioning structure. To override this with a shorter menu entry, use the ‘`ALT_TITLE`’ property (see [Table of Contents](/docs/org/Table-of-Contents)). Texinfo menu entries also have an option for a longer ‘`DESCRIPTION`’ property. Here’s an example that uses both to override the default menu entry:

```lisp
* Controlling Screen Display
  :PROPERTIES:
  :ALT_TITLE: Display
  :DESCRIPTION: Controlling Screen Display
  :END:
```

The text before the first headline belongs to the *Top* node, i.e., the node in which a reader enters an Info manual. As such, it is expected not to appear in printed output generated from the ‘`.texi`’ file. See [(texinfo)The Top Node](https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/manual/texinfo/texinfo.html#The-Top-Node), for more information.
