---
slug: LaTeX-specific-export-settings
---

The LaTeX export back-end has several additional keywords for customizing LaTeX output. Setting these keywords works similar to the general options (see [Export Settings](Export-Settings)).

### ‘`DESCRIPTION`’

The document’s description. The description along with author name, keywords, and related file metadata are inserted in the output file by the hyperref package. See `org-latex-hyperref-template` for customizing metadata items. See `org-latex-title-command` for typesetting description into the document’s front matter. Use multiple ‘`DESCRIPTION`’ keywords for long descriptions.

### ‘`LANGUAGE`’

In order to be effective, the ‘`babel`’ or ‘`polyglossia`’ packages—according to the LaTeX compiler used—must be loaded with the appropriate language as argument. This can be accomplished by modifying the `org-latex-packages-alist` variable, e.g., with the following snippet:

```lisp
(add-to-list 'org-latex-packages-alist
             '("AUTO" "babel" t ("pdflatex")))
(add-to-list 'org-latex-packages-alist
             '("AUTO" "polyglossia" t ("xelatex" "lualatex")))
```

### ‘`LATEX_CLASS`’

This is LaTeX document class, such as *article*, *report*, *book*, and so on, which contain predefined preamble and headline level mapping that the LaTeX export back-end needs. The back-end reads the default class name from the `org-latex-default-class` variable. Org has *article* as the default class. A valid default class must be an element of `org-latex-classes`.

### ‘`LATEX_CLASS_OPTIONS`’

Options the LaTeX export back-end uses when calling the LaTeX document class.

### ‘`LATEX_COMPILER`’

The compiler, such as ‘`pdflatex`’, ‘`xelatex`’, ‘`lualatex`’, for producing the PDF. See `org-latex-compiler`.

### ‘`LATEX_HEADER`’

### ‘`LATEX_HEADER_EXTRA`’

Arbitrary lines to add to the document’s preamble, before the hyperref settings. See `org-latex-classes` for adjusting the structure and order of the LaTeX headers.

### ‘`KEYWORDS`’

The keywords for the document. The description along with author name, keywords, and related file metadata are inserted in the output file by the hyperref package. See `org-latex-hyperref-template` for customizing metadata items. See `org-latex-title-command` for typesetting description into the document’s front matter. Use multiple ‘`KEYWORDS`’ lines if necessary.

### ‘`SUBTITLE`’

The document’s subtitle. It is typeset as per `org-latex-subtitle-format`. If `org-latex-subtitle-separate` is non-`nil`, it is typed outside of the `\title` macro. See `org-latex-hyperref-template` for customizing metadata items. See `org-latex-title-command` for typesetting description into the document’s front matter.

The following sections have further details.
