---
slug: Table-of-Contents
---

The table of contents includes all headlines in the document. Its depth is therefore the same as the headline levels in the file. If you need to use a different depth, or turn it off entirely, set the `org-export-with-toc` variable accordingly. You can achieve the same on a per file basis, using the following ‘`toc`’ item in ‘`OPTIONS`’ keyword:

```lisp
#+OPTIONS: toc:2          (only include two levels in TOC)
#+OPTIONS: toc:nil        (no default TOC at all)
```

Org includes both numbered and unnumbered headlines in the table of contents[^1]. If you need to exclude an unnumbered headline, along with all its children, set the ‘`UNNUMBERED`’ property to ‘`notoc`’ value.

```lisp
* Subtree not numbered, not in table of contents either
  :PROPERTIES:
  :UNNUMBERED: notoc
  :END:
```

Org normally inserts the table of contents directly before the first headline of the file. To move the table of contents to a different location, first turn off the default with `org-export-with-toc` variable or with ‘`#+OPTIONS: toc:nil`’. Then insert ‘`#+TOC: headlines N`’ at the desired location(s).

```lisp
#+OPTIONS: toc:nil
...
#+TOC: headlines 2
```

To adjust the table of contents depth for a specific section of the Org document, append an additional ‘`local`’ parameter. This parameter becomes a relative depth for the current level. The following example inserts a local table of contents, with direct children only.

```lisp
* Section
#+TOC: headlines 1 local
```

Note that for this feature to work properly in LaTeX export, the Org file requires the inclusion of the titletoc package. Because of compatibility issues, titletoc has to be loaded *before* hyperref. Customize the `org-latex-default-packages-alist` variable.

The following example inserts a table of contents that links to the children of the specified target.

```lisp
* Target
  :PROPERTIES:
  :CUSTOM_ID: TargetSection
  :END:
** Heading A
** Heading B
* Another section
#+TOC: headlines 1 :target #TargetSection
```

The ‘`:target`’ attribute is supported in HTML, Markdown, ODT, and ASCII export.

Use the ‘`TOC`’ keyword to generate list of tables—respectively, all listings—with captions.

```lisp
#+TOC: listings
#+TOC: tables
```

Normally Org uses the headline for its entry in the table of contents. But with ‘`ALT_TITLE`’ property, a different entry can be specified for the table of contents.

[^1]: At the moment, some export back-ends do not obey this specification. For example, LaTeX export excludes every unnumbered headline from the table of contents.
