---
slug: Include-Files
---

During export, you can include the content of another file. For example, to include your ‘`.emacs`’ file, you could use:

```lisp
#+INCLUDE: "~/.emacs" src emacs-lisp
```

The first parameter is the file name to include. The optional second parameter specifies the block type: ‘`example`’, ‘`export`’ or ‘`src`’. The optional third parameter specifies the source code language to use for formatting the contents. This is relevant to both ‘`export`’ and ‘`src`’ block types.

If an included file is specified as having a markup language, Org neither checks for valid syntax nor changes the contents in any way. For example and source blocks, Org code-escapes the contents before inclusion.

If an included file is not specified as having any markup language, Org assumes it be in Org format and proceeds as usual with a few exceptions. Org makes the footnote labels (see [Creating Footnotes](/docs/org/Creating-Footnotes)) in the included file local to that file. The contents of the included file belong to the same structure—headline, item—containing the ‘`INCLUDE`’ keyword. In particular, headlines within the file become children of the current section. That behavior can be changed by providing an additional keyword parameter, ‘`:minlevel`’. It shifts the headlines in the included file to become the lowest level. For example, this syntax makes the included file a sibling of the current top-level headline:

```lisp
#+INCLUDE: "~/my-book/chapter2.org" :minlevel 1
```

Inclusion of only portions of files are specified using ranges parameter with ‘`:lines`’ keyword. The line at the upper end of the range will not be included. The start and/or the end of the range may be omitted to use the obvious defaults.

|                                         |                                    |
| --------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| ‘`#+INCLUDE: "~/.emacs" :lines "5-10"`’ | Include lines 5 to 10, 10 excluded |
| ‘`#+INCLUDE: "~/.emacs" :lines "-10"`’  | Include lines 1 to 10, 10 excluded |
| ‘`#+INCLUDE: "~/.emacs" :lines "10-"`’  | Include lines from 10 to EOF       |

Inclusions may specify a file-link to extract an object matched by `org-link-search`[^1] (see [Search Options](/docs/org/Search-Options)). The ranges for ‘`:lines`’ keyword are relative to the requested element. Therefore,

```lisp
#+INCLUDE: "./paper.org::*conclusion" :lines 1-20
```

includes the first 20 lines of the headline named ‘`conclusion`’.

To extract only the contents of the matched object, set ‘`:only-contents`’ property to non-`nil`. This omits any planning lines or property drawers. For example, to include the body of the heading with the custom ID ‘`theory`’, you can use

```lisp
#+INCLUDE: "./paper.org::#theory" :only-contents t
```

The following command allows navigating to the included document:

### `C-c '` (`org-edit~special`)

Visit the included file at point.

[^1]: Note that `org-link-search-must-match-exact-headline` is locally bound to non-`nil`. Therefore, `org-link-search` only matches headlines and named elements.
