---
slug: Beamer-specific-export-settings
---

Beamer export back-end has several additional keywords for customizing Beamer output. These keywords work similar to the general options settings (see [Export Settings](Export-Settings)).

### ‘`BEAMER_THEME`’

The Beamer layout theme (`org-beamer-theme`). Use square brackets for options. For example:

```lisp
#+BEAMER_THEME: Rochester [height=20pt]
```

### ‘`BEAMER_FONT_THEME`’

The Beamer font theme.

### ‘`BEAMER_INNER_THEME`’

The Beamer inner theme.

### ‘`BEAMER_OUTER_THEME`’

The Beamer outer theme.

### ‘`BEAMER_HEADER`’

Arbitrary lines inserted in the preamble, just before the ‘`hyperref`’ settings.

### ‘`DESCRIPTION`’

The document description. For long descriptions, use multiple ‘`DESCRIPTION`’ keywords. By default, ‘`hyperref`’ inserts ‘`DESCRIPTION`’ as metadata. Use `org-latex-hyperref-template` to configure document metadata. Use `org-latex-title-command` to configure typesetting of description as part of front matter.

### ‘`KEYWORDS`’

The keywords for defining the contents of the document. Use multiple ‘`KEYWORDS`’ lines if necessary. By default, ‘`hyperref`’ inserts ‘`KEYWORDS`’ as metadata. Use `org-latex-hyperref-template` to configure document metadata. Use `org-latex-title-command` to configure typesetting of keywords as part of front matter.

### ‘`SUBTITLE`’

Document’s subtitle. For typesetting, use `org-beamer-subtitle-format` string. Use `org-latex-hyperref-template` to configure document metadata. Use `org-latex-title-command` to configure typesetting of subtitle as part of front matter.
