---
slug: HTML-specific-export-settings
---

HTML export has a number of keywords, similar to the general options settings described in [Export Settings](/docs/org/Export-Settings).

### ‘`DESCRIPTION`’

This is the document’s description, which the HTML exporter inserts it as a HTML meta tag in the HTML file. For long descriptions, use multiple ‘`DESCRIPTION`’ lines. The exporter takes care of wrapping the lines properly.

### ‘`HTML_DOCTYPE`’

Specify the document type, for example: HTML5 (`org-html-doctype`).

### ‘`HTML_CONTAINER`’

Specify the HTML container, such as ‘`div`’, for wrapping sections and elements (`org-html-container-element`).

### ‘`HTML_LINK_HOME`’

The URL for home link (`org-html-link-home`).

### ‘`HTML_LINK_UP`’

The URL for the up link of exported HTML pages (`org-html-link-up`).

### ‘`HTML_MATHJAX`’

Options for MathJax (`org-html-mathjax-options`). MathJax is used to typeset LaTeX math in HTML documents. See [Math formatting in HTML export](/docs/org/Math-formatting-in-HTML-export), for an example.

### ‘`HTML_HEAD`’

Arbitrary lines for appending to the HTML document’s head (`org-html-head`).

### ‘`HTML_HEAD_EXTRA`’

More arbitrary lines for appending to the HTML document’s head (`org-html-head-extra`).

### ‘`KEYWORDS`’

Keywords to describe the document’s content. HTML exporter inserts these keywords as HTML meta tags. For long keywords, use multiple ‘`KEYWORDS`’ lines.

### ‘`LATEX_HEADER`’

Arbitrary lines for appending to the preamble; HTML exporter appends when transcoding LaTeX fragments to images (see [Math formatting in HTML export](/docs/org/Math-formatting-in-HTML-export)).

### ‘`SUBTITLE`’

The document’s subtitle. HTML exporter formats subtitle if document type is ‘`HTML5`’ and the CSS has a ‘`subtitle`’ class.

Some of these keywords are explained in more detail in the following sections of the manual.
