---
slug: Site-map
---

The following properties may be used to control publishing of a map of files for a given project.

### <span className="tag :auto-sitemap">`:auto-sitemap`</span>``

When non-`nil`, publish a sitemap during `org-publish-current-project` or `org-publish-all`.

### <span className="tag :sitemap-filename">`:sitemap-filename`</span>``

Filename for output of sitemap. Defaults to ‘`sitemap.org`’, which becomes ‘`sitemap.html`’.

### <span className="tag :sitemap-title">`:sitemap-title`</span>``

Title of sitemap page. Defaults to name of file.

### <span className="tag :sitemap-format-entry">`:sitemap-format-entry`</span>``

With this option one can tell how a site-map entry is formatted in the site-map. It is a function called with three arguments: the file or directory name relative to base directory of the project, the site-map style and the current project. It is expected to return a string. Default value turns file names into links and use document titles as descriptions. For specific formatting needs, one can use `org-publish-find-date`, `org-publish-find-title` and `org-publish-find-property`, to retrieve additional information about published documents.

### <span className="tag :sitemap-function">`:sitemap-function`</span>``

Plug-in function to use for generation of the sitemap. It is called with two arguments: the title of the site-map and a representation of the files and directories involved in the project as a nested list, which can further be transformed using `org-list-to-generic`, `org-list-to-subtree` and alike. Default value generates a plain list of links to all files in the project.

### <span className="tag :sitemap-sort-folders">`:sitemap-sort-folders`</span>``

Where folders should appear in the sitemap. Set this to `first` (default) or `last` to display folders first or last, respectively. When set to `ignore`, folders are ignored altogether. Any other value mixes files and folders. This variable has no effect when site-map style is `tree`.

### <span className="tag :sitemap-sort-files">`:sitemap-sort-files`</span>``

How the files are sorted in the site map. Set this to `alphabetically` (default), `chronologically` or `anti-chronologically`. `chronologically` sorts the files with older date first while `anti-chronologically` sorts the files with newer date first. `alphabetically` sorts the files alphabetically. The date of a file is retrieved with `org-publish-find-date`.

### <span className="tag :sitemap-ignore-case">`:sitemap-ignore-case`</span>``

Should sorting be case-sensitive? Default `nil`.

### <span className="tag :sitemap-file-entry-format">`:sitemap-file-entry-format`</span>``

With this option one can tell how a sitemap’s entry is formatted in the sitemap. This is a format string with some escape sequences: `%t` stands for the title of the file, `%a` stands for the author of the file and `%d` stands for the date of the file. The date is retrieved with the `org-publish-find-date` function and formatted with `org-publish-sitemap-date-format`. Default `%t`.

### <span className="tag :sitemap-date-format">`:sitemap-date-format`</span>``

Format string for the `format-time-string` function that tells how a sitemap entry’s date is to be formatted. This property bypasses `org-publish-sitemap-date-format` which defaults to `%Y-%m-%d`.
