---
slug: Structure-of-Code-Blocks
---

Org offers two ways to structure source code in Org documents: in a source code block, and directly inline. Both specifications are shown below.

A source code block conforms to this structure:

```lisp
#+NAME: <name>
#+BEGIN_SRC <language> <switches> <header arguments>
  <body>
#+END_SRC
```

Do not be put-off by having to remember the source block syntax. Org mode offers a command for wrapping existing text in a block (see [Structure Templates](/docs/org/Structure-Templates)). Org also works with other completion systems in Emacs, some of which predate Org and have custom domain-specific languages for defining templates. Regular use of templates reduces errors, increases accuracy, and maintains consistency.

An inline code block conforms to this structure:

```lisp
src_<language>{<body>}
```

or

```lisp
src_<language>[<header arguments>]{<body>}
```

### ‘`#+NAME: <name>`’

Optional. Names the source block so it can be called, like a function, from other source blocks or inline code to evaluate or to capture the results. Code from other blocks, other files, and from table formulas (see [The Spreadsheet](/docs/org/The-Spreadsheet)) can use the name to reference a source block. This naming serves the same purpose as naming Org tables. Org mode requires unique names. For duplicate names, Org mode’s behavior is undefined.

### ‘`#+BEGIN_SRC`’ … ‘`#+END_SRC`’

Mandatory. They mark the start and end of a block that Org requires. The ‘`#+BEGIN_SRC`’ line takes additional arguments, as described next.

### ‘`<language>`’

Mandatory. It is the identifier of the source code language in the block. See [Languages](/docs/org/Languages), for identifiers of supported languages.

### ‘`<switches>`’

Optional. Switches provide finer control of the code execution, export, and format (see the discussion of switches in [Literal Examples](/docs/org/Literal-Examples)).

### ‘`<header arguments>`’

Optional. Heading arguments control many aspects of evaluation, export and tangling of code blocks (see [Using Header Arguments](/docs/org/Using-Header-Arguments)). Using Org’s properties feature, header arguments can be selectively applied to the entire buffer or specific sub-trees of the Org document.

### ‘`<body>`’

Source code in the dialect of the specified language identifier.
