---
slug: Completion
---

Org has in-buffer completions. Unlike minibuffer completions, which are useful for quick command interactions, Org’s in-buffer completions are more suitable for content creation in Org documents. Type one or more letters and invoke the hot key to complete the text in-place. Depending on the context and the keys, Org offers different types of completions. No minibuffer is involved. Such mode-specific hot keys have become an integral part of Emacs and Org provides several shortcuts.

### `M-TAB`

Complete word at point.

*   At the beginning of an empty headline, complete TODO keywords.
*   After ‘`\`’, complete TeX symbols supported by the exporter.
*   After ‘`:`’ in a headline, complete tags. Org deduces the list of tags from the ‘`TAGS`’ in-buffer option (see [Setting Tags](/docs/org/Setting-Tags)), the variable `org-tag-alist`, or from all tags used in the current buffer.
*   After ‘`:`’ and not in a headline, complete property keys. The list of keys is constructed dynamically from all keys used in the current buffer.
*   After ‘`[[`’, complete link abbreviations (see [Link Abbreviations](/docs/org/Link-Abbreviations)).
*   After ‘`[[*`’, complete headlines in the current buffer so that they can be used in search links like: ‘`[[*find this headline]]`’
*   After ‘`#+`’, complete the special keywords like ‘`TYP_TODO`’ or file-specific ‘`OPTIONS`’. After option keyword is complete, pressing `M-TAB` again inserts example settings for this keyword.
*   After ‘`STARTUP`’ keyword, complete startup items.
*   When point is anywhere else, complete dictionary words using Ispell.
