---
slug: Cooperation
---

### ‘`calc.el`’ by Dave Gillespie

Org uses the Calc package for implementing spreadsheet functionality in its tables (see [The Spreadsheet](/docs/org/The-Spreadsheet)). Org also uses Calc for embedded calculations. See [(calc)GNU Emacs Calc Manual](/docs/org/Embedded-Mode).

### ‘`constants.el`’ by Carsten Dominik

Org can use names for constants in formulas in tables. Org can also use calculation suffixes for units, such as ‘`M`’ for ‘`Mega`’. For a standard collection of such constants, install the ‘`constants`’ package. Install version 2.0 of this package, available at [http://www.astro.uva.nl/\~dominik/Tools](/docs/org/http://www.astro.uva.nl/\~dominik/Tools). Org checks if the function `constants-get` has been autoloaded. Installation instructions are in the file ‘`constants.el`’.

### ‘`cdlatex.el`’ by Carsten Dominik

Org mode can make use of the CDLaTeX package to efficiently enter LaTeX fragments into Org files. See [CDLaTeX mode](/docs/org/CDLaTeX-mode).

### ‘`imenu.el`’ by Ake Stenhoff and Lars Lindberg

Imenu creates dynamic menus based on an index of items in a file. Org mode supports Imenu menus. Enable it with a mode hook as follows:

```lisp
(add-hook 'org-mode-hook
          (lambda () (imenu-add-to-menubar "Imenu")))
```

By default the index is two levels deep—you can modify the depth using the option `org-imenu-depth`.

### ‘`speedbar.el`’ by Eric M. Ludlam

Speedbar package creates a special Emacs frame for displaying files and index items in files. Org mode supports Speedbar; users can drill into Org files directly from the Speedbar. The `<` in the Speedbar frame tweaks the agenda commands to that file or to a subtree.

### ‘`table.el`’ by Takaaki Ota

Complex ASCII tables with automatic line wrapping, column- and row-spanning, and alignment can be created using the Emacs table package by Takaaki Ota. Org mode recognizes such tables and exports them properly. `C-c '` to edit these tables in a special buffer, much like Org’s code blocks. Because of interference with other Org mode functionality, Takaaki Ota tables cannot be edited directly in the Org buffer.

### `C-c '` (`org-edit-special`)

Edit a ‘`table.el`’ table. Works when point is in a ‘`table.el`’ table.

### `C-c ~​` (`org-table-create-with-table.el`)

Insert a ‘`table.el`’ table. If there is already a table at point, this command converts it between the ‘`table.el`’ format and the Org mode format. See the documentation string of the command `org-convert-table` for the restrictions under which this is possible.
