---
slug: The-Very-Busy-C_002dc-C_002dc-Key
---

The `C-c C-c` key in Org serves many purposes depending on the context. It is probably the most over-worked, multi-purpose key combination in Org. Its uses are well documented throughout this manual, but here is a consolidated list for easy reference.

*   If column view (see [Column View](/docs/org/Column-View)) is on, exit column view.
*   If any highlights shown in the buffer from the creation of a sparse tree, or from clock display, remove such highlights.
*   If point is in one of the special ‘`KEYWORD`’ lines, scan the buffer for these lines and update the information. Also reset the Org file cache used to temporary store the contents of URLs used as values for keywords like ‘`SETUPFILE`’.
*   If point is inside a table, realign the table.
*   If point is on a ‘`TBLFM`’ keyword, re-apply the formulas to the entire table.
*   If the current buffer is a capture buffer, close the note and file it. With a prefix argument, also jump to the target location after saving the note.
*   If point is on a ‘`<<<target>>>`’, update radio targets and corresponding links in this buffer.
*   If point is on a property line or at the start or end of a property drawer, offer property commands.
*   If point is at a footnote reference, go to the corresponding definition, and *vice versa*.
*   If point is on a statistics cookie, update it.
*   If point is in a plain list item with a checkbox, toggle the status of the checkbox.
*   If point is on a numbered item in a plain list, renumber the ordered list.
*   If point is on the ‘`#+BEGIN`’ line of a dynamic block, the block is updated.
*   If point is at a timestamp, fix the day name in the timestamp.
