---
slug: Drawers
---

Sometimes you want to keep information associated with an entry, but you normally do not want to see it. For this, Org mode has *drawers*. They can contain anything but a headline and another drawer. Drawers look like this:

```lisp
** This is a headline
Still outside the drawer
:DRAWERNAME:
This is inside the drawer.
:END:
After the drawer.
```

You can interactively insert a drawer at point by calling `org-insert-drawer`, which is bound to `C-c C-x d`. With an active region, this command puts the region inside the drawer. With a prefix argument, this command calls `org-insert-property-drawer`, which creates a ‘`PROPERTIES`’ drawer right below the current headline. Org mode uses this special drawer for storing properties (see [Properties and Columns](/docs/org/Properties-and-Columns)). You cannot use it for anything else.

Completion over drawer keywords is also possible using `M-TAB`[^1].

Visibility cycling (see [Visibility Cycling](/docs/org/Visibility-Cycling)) on the headline hides and shows the entry, but keep the drawer collapsed to a single line. In order to look inside the drawer, you need to move point to the drawer line and press `TAB` there.

You can also arrange for state change notes (see [Tracking TODO state changes](/docs/org/Tracking-TODO-state-changes)) and clock times (see [Clocking Work Time](/docs/org/Clocking-Work-Time)) to be stored in a ‘`LOGBOOK`’ drawer. If you want to store a quick note there, in a similar way to state changes, use

### `C-c C-z`

Add a time-stamped note to the ‘`LOGBOOK`’ drawer.

[^1]: Many desktops intercept `M-TAB` to switch windows. Use `C-M-i` or `ESC TAB` instead.
