---
slug: Org-Plot
---

Org Plot can produce graphs of information stored in Org tables, either graphically or in ASCII art.

## Graphical plots using Gnuplot

Org Plot can produce 2D and 3D graphs of information stored in Org tables using [Gnuplot](http://www.gnuplot.info/) and [Gnuplot mode](http://cars9.uchicago.edu/\~ravel/software/gnuplot-mode.html). To see this in action, ensure that you have both Gnuplot and Gnuplot mode installed on your system, then call `C-c " g` or `M-x org-plot/gnuplot` on the following table.

```lisp
#+PLOT: title:"Citas" ind:1 deps:(3) type:2d with:histograms set:"yrange [0:]"
| Sede      | Max cites | H-index |
|-----------+-----------+---------|
| Chile     |    257.72 |   21.39 |
| Leeds     |    165.77 |   19.68 |
| Sao Paolo |     71.00 |   11.50 |
| Stockholm |    134.19 |   14.33 |
| Morelia   |    257.56 |   17.67 |
```

Notice that Org Plot is smart enough to apply the table’s headers as labels. Further control over the labels, type, content, and appearance of plots can be exercised through the ‘`PLOT`’ keyword preceding a table. See below for a complete list of Org Plot options. For more information and examples see the [Org Plot tutorial](https://orgmode.org/worg/org-tutorials/org-plot.html).

## Plot options

### ‘`set`’

Specify any Gnuplot option to be set when graphing.

### ‘`title`’

Specify the title of the plot.

### ‘`ind`’

Specify which column of the table to use as the ‘`x`’ axis.

### ‘`deps`’

Specify the columns to graph as a Lisp style list, surrounded by parentheses and separated by spaces for example ‘`dep:(3 4)`’ to graph the third and fourth columns. Defaults to graphing all other columns aside from the ‘`ind`’ column.

### ‘`type`’

Specify whether the plot is ‘`2d`’, ‘`3d`’, or ‘`grid`’.

### ‘`with`’

Specify a ‘`with`’ option to be inserted for every column being plotted, e.g., ‘`lines`’, ‘`points`’, ‘`boxes`’, ‘`impulses`’. Defaults to ‘`lines`’.

### ‘`file`’

If you want to plot to a file, specify ‘`"path/to/desired/output-file"`’.

### ‘`labels`’

List of labels to be used for the ‘`deps`’. Defaults to the column headers if they exist.

### ‘`line`’

Specify an entire line to be inserted in the Gnuplot script.

### ‘`map`’

When plotting ‘`3d`’ or ‘`grid`’ types, set this to ‘`t`’ to graph a flat mapping rather than a ‘`3d`’ slope.

### ‘`timefmt`’

Specify format of Org mode timestamps as they will be parsed by Gnuplot. Defaults to ‘`%Y-%m-%d-%H:%M:%S`’.

### ‘`script`’

If you want total control, you can specify a script file—place the file name between double-quotes—which will be used to plot. Before plotting, every instance of ‘`$datafile`’ in the specified script will be replaced with the path to the generated data file. Note: even if you set this option, you may still want to specify the plot type, as that can impact the content of the data file.

## ASCII bar plots

While point is on a column, typing `C-c `` a` or `M-x orgtbl-ascii-plot` create a new column containing an ASCII-art bars plot. The plot is implemented through a regular column formula. When the source column changes, the bar plot may be updated by refreshing the table, for example typing `C-u C-c *`.

```lisp
| Sede          | Max cites |              |
|---------------+-----------+--------------|
| Chile         |    257.72 | WWWWWWWWWWWW |
| Leeds         |    165.77 | WWWWWWWh     |
| Sao Paolo     |     71.00 | WWW;         |
| Stockholm     |    134.19 | WWWWWW:      |
| Morelia       |    257.56 | WWWWWWWWWWWH |
| Rochefourchat |      0.00 |              |
#+TBLFM: $3='(orgtbl-ascii-draw $2 0.0 257.72 12)
```

The formula is an Elisp call.

### <span className="tag function">`function`</span> **orgtbl-ascii-draw** *value min max \&optional width*

Draw an ASCII bar in a table.

`VALUE` is the value to plot.

`MIN` is the value displayed as an empty bar. `MAX` is the value filling all the `WIDTH`. Sources values outside this range are displayed as ‘`too small`’ or ‘`too large`’.

`WIDTH` is the number of characters of the bar plot. It defaults to ‘`12`’.
