---
slug: Internal-Links
---

A link that does not look like a URL—i.e., does not start with a known scheme or a file name—refers to the current document. You can follow it with `C-c C-o` when point is on the link, or with a mouse click (see [Handling Links](/docs/org/Handling-Links)).

Org provides several refinements to internal navigation within a document. Most notably, a construct like ‘`[[#my-custom-id]]`’ specifically targets the entry with the ‘`CUSTOM_ID`’ property set to ‘`my-custom-id`’. Also, an internal link looking like ‘`[[*Some section]]`’ points to a headline with the name ‘`Some section`’[^1].

When the link does not belong to any of the cases above, Org looks for a *dedicated target*: the same string in double angular brackets, like ‘`<<My Target>>`’.

If no dedicated target exists, the link tries to match the exact name of an element within the buffer. Naming is done, unsurprisingly, with the ‘`NAME`’ keyword, which has to be put in the line before the element it refers to, as in the following example

```lisp
#+NAME: My Target
| a  | table      |
|----+------------|
| of | four cells |
```

Ultimately, if none of the above succeeds, Org searches for a headline that is exactly the link text but may also include a TODO keyword and tags, or initiates a plain text search, according to the value of `org-link-search-must-match-exact-headline`.

Note that you must make sure custom IDs, dedicated targets, and names are unique throughout the document. Org provides a linter to assist you in the process, if needed. See [Org Syntax](/docs/org/Org-Syntax).

During export, internal links are used to mark objects and assign them a number. Marked objects are then referenced by links pointing to them. In particular, links without a description appear as the number assigned to the marked object[^2]. In the following excerpt from an Org buffer

```lisp
1. one item
2. <<target>>another item
Here we refer to item [[target]].
```

The last sentence will appear as ‘`Here we refer to item 2`’ when exported.

In non-Org files, the search looks for the words in the link text. In the above example the search would be for ‘`target`’.

Following a link pushes a mark onto Org’s own mark ring. You can return to the previous position with `C-c &`. Using this command several times in direct succession goes back to positions recorded earlier.

[^1]: To insert a link targeting a headline, in-buffer completion can be used. Just type a star followed by a few optional letters into the buffer and press `M-TAB`. All headlines in the current buffer are offered as completions.

[^2]: When targeting a ‘`NAME`’ keyword, the ‘`CAPTION`’ keyword is mandatory in order to get proper numbering (see [Captions](/docs/org/Captions)).
