---
slug: TODO-Basics
---

Any headline becomes a TODO item when it starts with the word ‘`TODO`’, for example:

```lisp
*** TODO Write letter to Sam Fortune
```

The most important commands to work with TODO entries are:

### `C-c C-t` (`org-todo`)

Rotate the TODO state of the current item among

```lisp
,-> (unmarked) -> TODO -> DONE --.
'--------------------------------'
```

If TODO keywords have fast access keys (see [Fast access to TODO states](Fast-access-to-TODO-states)), prompt for a TODO keyword through the fast selection interface; this is the default behavior when `org-use-fast-todo-selection` is non-`nil`.

The same state changing can also be done “remotely" from the agenda buffer with the `t` command key (see [Agenda Commands](Agenda-Commands)).

### `S-RIGHT` `S-LEFT`

Select the following/preceding TODO state, similar to cycling. Useful mostly if more than two TODO states are possible (see [TODO Extensions](TODO-Extensions)). See also [Conflicts](Conflicts), for a discussion of the interaction with shift-selection. See also the variable `org-treat-S-cursor-todo-selection-as-state-change`.

### `C-c / t` (`org-show-todo-tree`)

View TODO items in a *sparse tree* (see [Sparse Trees](Sparse-Trees)). Folds the entire buffer, but shows all TODO items—with not-DONE state—and the headings hierarchy above them. With a prefix argument, or by using `C-c / T`, search for a specific TODO. You are prompted for the keyword, and you can also give a list of keywords like ‘`KWD1|KWD2|...`’ to list entries that match any one of these keywords. With a numeric prefix argument N, show the tree for the Nth keyword in the variable `org-todo-keywords`. With two prefix arguments, find all TODO states, both un-done and done.

### `M-x org-agenda t` (`org-todo-list`)

Show the global TODO list. Collects the TODO items (with not-DONE states) from all agenda files (see [Agenda Views](Agenda-Views)) into a single buffer. The new buffer is in Org Agenda mode, which provides commands to examine and manipulate the TODO entries from the new buffer (see [Agenda Commands](Agenda-Commands)). See [Global TODO list](Global-TODO-list), for more information.

### `S-M-RET` (`org-insert-todo-heading`)

Insert a new TODO entry below the current one.

Changing a TODO state can also trigger tag changes. See the docstring of the option `org-todo-state-tags-triggers` for details.
