---
slug: Tracking-TODO-state-changes
---

You might want to automatically keep track of when a state change occurred and maybe take a note about this change. You can either record just a timestamp, or a time-stamped note. These records are inserted after the headline as an itemized list, newest first[^1]. When taking a lot of notes, you might want to get the notes out of the way into a drawer (see [Drawers](Drawers)). Customize the variable `org-log-into-drawer` to get this behavior—the recommended drawer for this is called ‘`LOGBOOK`’[^2]. You can also overrule the setting of this variable for a subtree by setting a ‘`LOG_INTO_DRAWER`’ property.

Since it is normally too much to record a note for every state, Org mode expects configuration on a per-keyword basis for this. This is achieved by adding special markers ‘`!`’ (for a timestamp) or ‘`@`’ (for a note with timestamp) in parentheses after each keyword. For example, with the setting

```lisp
(setq org-todo-keywords
      '((sequence "TODO(t)" "WAIT(w@/!)" "|" "DONE(d!)" "CANCELED(c@)")))
```

To record a timestamp without a note for TODO keywords configured with ‘`@`’, just type `C-c C-c` to enter a blank note when prompted.

You not only define global TODO keywords and fast access keys, but also request that a time is recorded when the entry is set to ‘`DONE`’, and that a note is recorded when switching to ‘`WAIT`’ or ‘`CANCELED`’[^3]. The setting for ‘`WAIT`’ is even more special: the ‘`!`’ after the slash means that in addition to the note taken when entering the state, a timestamp should be recorded when *leaving* the ‘`WAIT`’ state, if and only if the *target* state does not configure logging for entering it. So it has no effect when switching from ‘`WAIT`’ to ‘`DONE`’, because ‘`DONE`’ is configured to record a timestamp only. But when switching from ‘`WAIT`’ back to ‘`TODO`’, the ‘`/!`’ in the ‘`WAIT`’ setting now triggers a timestamp even though ‘`TODO`’ has no logging configured.

You can use the exact same syntax for setting logging preferences local to a buffer:

```lisp
#+TODO: TODO(t) WAIT(w@/!) | DONE(d!) CANCELED(c@)
```

In order to define logging settings that are local to a subtree or a single item, define a ‘`LOGGING`’ property in this entry. Any non-empty ‘`LOGGING`’ property resets all logging settings to `nil`. You may then turn on logging for this specific tree using ‘`STARTUP`’ keywords like ‘`lognotedone`’ or ‘`logrepeat`’, as well as adding state specific settings like ‘`TODO(!)`’. For example:

```lisp
* TODO Log each state with only a time
  :PROPERTIES:
  :LOGGING: TODO(!) WAIT(!) DONE(!) CANCELED(!)
  :END:
* TODO Only log when switching to WAIT, and when repeating
  :PROPERTIES:
  :LOGGING: WAIT(@) logrepeat
  :END:
* TODO No logging at all
  :PROPERTIES:
  :LOGGING: nil
  :END:
```

[^1]: See the variable `org-log-states-order-reversed`.

[^2]: Note that the ‘`LOGBOOK`’ drawer is unfolded when pressing `SPC` in the agenda to show an entry—use `C-u SPC` to keep it folded here.

[^3]: It is possible that Org mode records two timestamps when you are using both `org-log-done` and state change logging. However, it never prompts for two notes: if you have configured both, the state change recording note takes precedence and cancel the closing note.
