---
slug: Priorities
---

If you use Org mode extensively, you may end up with enough TODO items that it starts to make sense to prioritize them. Prioritizing can be done by placing a *priority cookie* into the headline of a TODO item right after the TODO keyword, like this:

```lisp
*** TODO [#A] Write letter to Sam Fortune
```

By default, Org mode supports three priorities: ‘`A`’, ‘`B`’, and ‘`C`’. ‘`A`’ is the highest priority. An entry without a cookie is treated as equivalent if it had priority ‘`B`’. Priorities make a difference only for sorting in the agenda (see [Weekly/daily agenda](/docs/org/Weekly_002fdaily-agenda)). Outside the agenda, they have no inherent meaning to Org mode. The cookies are displayed with the face defined by the variable `org-priority-faces`, which can be customized.

You can also use numeric values for priorities, such as

```lisp
*** TODO [#1] Write letter to Sam Fortune
```

When using numeric priorities, you need to set `org-priority-highest`, `org-priority-lowest` and `org-priority-default` to integers, which must all be strictly inferior to 65.

Priorities can be attached to any outline node; they do not need to be TODO items.

### `C-c ,` (`org-priority`)

Set the priority of the current headline. The command prompts for a priority character ‘`A`’, ‘`B`’ or ‘`C`’. When you press `SPC` instead, the priority cookie, if one is set, is removed from the headline. The priorities can also be changed “remotely" from the agenda buffer with the `,` command (see [Agenda Commands](/docs/org/Agenda-Commands)).

### `S-UP` (`org-priority-up`)

### `S-DOWN` (`org-priority-down`)

Increase/decrease the priority of the current headline[^1]. Note that these keys are also used to modify timestamps (see [Creating Timestamps](/docs/org/Creating-Timestamps)). See also [Conflicts](/docs/org/Conflicts), for a discussion of the interaction with shift-selection.

You can change the range of allowed priorities by setting the variables `org-priority-highest`, `org-priority-lowest`, and `org-priority-default`. For an individual buffer, you may set these values (highest, lowest, default) like this (please make sure that the highest priority is earlier in the alphabet than the lowest priority):

```lisp
#+PRIORITIES: A C B
```

Or, using numeric values:

```lisp
#+PRIORITIES: 1 10 5
```

[^1]: See also the option `org-priority-start-cycle-with-default`.
