---
slug: Setting-Tags
---

Tags can simply be typed into the buffer at the end of a headline. After a colon, `M-TAB` offers completion on tags. There is also a special command for inserting tags:

### `C-c C-q` (`org-set-tags-command`)

Enter new tags for the current headline. Org mode either offers completion or a special single-key interface for setting tags, see below. After pressing `RET`, the tags are inserted and aligned to `org-tags-column`. When called with a `C-u` prefix, all tags in the current buffer are aligned to that column, just to make things look nice. Tags are automatically realigned after promotion, demotion, and TODO state changes (see [TODO Basics](/docs/org/TODO-Basics)).

### `C-c C-c` (`org-set-tags-command`)

When point is in a headline, this does the same as `C-c C-q`.

Org supports tag insertion based on a *list of tags*. By default this list is constructed dynamically, containing all tags currently used in the buffer[^1]. You may also globally specify a hard list of tags with the variable `org-tag-alist`. Finally you can set the default tags for a given file using the ‘`TAGS`’ keyword, like

```lisp
#+TAGS: @work @home @tennisclub
#+TAGS: laptop car pc sailboat
```

If you have globally defined your preferred set of tags using the variable `org-tag-alist`, but would like to use a dynamic tag list in a specific file, add an empty ‘`TAGS`’ keyword to that file:

```lisp
#+TAGS:
```

If you have a preferred set of tags that you would like to use in every file, in addition to those defined on a per-file basis by ‘`TAGS`’ keyword, then you may specify a list of tags with the variable `org-tag-persistent-alist`. You may turn this off on a per-file basis by adding a ‘`STARTUP`’ keyword to that file:

```lisp
#+STARTUP: noptag
```

By default Org mode uses the standard minibuffer completion facilities for entering tags. However, it also implements another, quicker, tag selection method called *fast tag selection*. This allows you to select and deselect tags with just a single key press. For this to work well you should assign unique letters to most of your commonly used tags. You can do this globally by configuring the variable `org-tag-alist` in your Emacs init file. For example, you may find the need to tag many items in different files with ‘`@home`’. In this case you can set something like:

```lisp
(setq org-tag-alist '(("@work" . ?w) ("@home" . ?h) ("laptop" . ?l)))
```

If the tag is only relevant to the file you are working on, then you can instead set the ‘`TAGS`’ keyword as:

```lisp
#+TAGS: @work(w)  @home(h)  @tennisclub(t)  laptop(l)  pc(p)
```

The tags interface shows the available tags in a splash window. If you want to start a new line after a specific tag, insert ‘`\n`’ into the tag list

```lisp
#+TAGS: @work(w) @home(h) @tennisclub(t) \n laptop(l) pc(p)
```

or write them in two lines:

```lisp
#+TAGS: @work(w)  @home(h)  @tennisclub(t)
#+TAGS: laptop(l)  pc(p)
```

You can also group together tags that are mutually exclusive by using braces, as in:

```lisp
#+TAGS: { @work(w)  @home(h)  @tennisclub(t) }  laptop(l)  pc(p)
```

you indicate that at most one of ‘`@work`’, ‘`@home`’, and ‘`@tennisclub`’ should be selected. Multiple such groups are allowed.

Do not forget to press `C-c C-c` with point in one of these lines to activate any changes.

To set these mutually exclusive groups in the variable `org-tags-alist`, you must use the dummy tags `:startgroup` and `:endgroup` instead of the braces. Similarly, you can use `:newline` to indicate a line break. The previous example would be set globally by the following configuration:

```lisp
(setq org-tag-alist '((:startgroup . nil)
                      ("@work" . ?w) ("@home" . ?h)
                      ("@tennisclub" . ?t)
                      (:endgroup . nil)
                      ("laptop" . ?l) ("pc" . ?p)))
```

If at least one tag has a selection key then pressing `C-c C-c` automatically presents you with a special interface, listing inherited tags, the tags of the current headline, and a list of all valid tags with corresponding keys[^2].

Pressing keys assigned to tags adds or removes them from the list of tags in the current line. Selecting a tag in a group of mutually exclusive tags turns off any other tag from that group.

In this interface, you can also use the following special keys:

### `TAB`

Enter a tag in the minibuffer, even if the tag is not in the predefined list. You can complete on all tags present in the buffer. You can also add several tags: just separate them with a comma.

### `SPC`

Clear all tags for this line.

### `RET`

Accept the modified set.

### `C-g`

Abort without installing changes.

### `q`

If `q` is not assigned to a tag, it aborts like `C-g`.

### `!`

Turn off groups of mutually exclusive tags. Use this to (as an exception) assign several tags from such a group.

### `C-c`

Toggle auto-exit after the next change (see below). If you are using expert mode, the first `C-c` displays the selection window.

This method lets you assign tags to a headline with very few keys. With the above setup, you could clear the current tags and set ‘`@home`’, ‘`laptop`’ and ‘`pc`’ tags with just the following keys: `C-c C-c SPC h l p RET`. Switching from ‘`@home`’ to ‘`@work`’ would be done with `C-c C-c w RET` or alternatively with `C-c C-c C-c w`. Adding the non-predefined tag ‘`sarah`’ could be done with `C-c C-c TAB s a r a h RET`.

If you find that most of the time you need only a single key press to modify your list of tags, set the variable `org-fast-tag-selection-single-key`. Then you no longer have to press `RET` to exit fast tag selection—it exits after the first change. If you then occasionally need more keys, press `C-c` to turn off auto-exit for the current tag selection process (in effect: start selection with `C-c C-c C-c` instead of `C-c C-c`). If you set the variable to the value `expert`, the special window is not even shown for single-key tag selection, it comes up only when you press an extra `C-c`.

[^1]: To extend this default list to all tags used in all agenda files (see [Agenda Views](/docs/org/Agenda-Views)), customize the variable `org-complete-tags-always-offer-all-agenda-tags`.

[^2]: Keys are automatically assigned to tags that have no configured keys.
