---
slug: Capturing-column-view
---

Since column view is just an overlay over a buffer, it cannot be exported or printed directly. If you want to capture a column view, use a ‘`columnview`’ dynamic block (see [Dynamic Blocks](/docs/org/Dynamic-Blocks)). The frame of this block looks like this:

```lisp
* The column view
#+BEGIN: columnview :hlines 1 :id "label"

#+END:
```

This dynamic block has the following parameters:

### ‘`:id`’

This is the most important parameter. Column view is a feature that is often localized to a certain (sub)tree, and the capture block might be at a different location in the file. To identify the tree whose view to capture, you can use four values:

### ‘`local`’

Use the tree in which the capture block is located.

### ‘`global`’

Make a global view, including all headings in the file.

### ‘`file:FILENAME`’

Run column view at the top of the `FILENAME` file.

### ‘`LABEL`’

Call column view in the tree that has an ‘`ID`’ property with the value `LABEL`. You can use `M-x org-id-copy` to create a globally unique ID for the current entry and copy it to the kill-ring.

### ‘`:match`’

When set to a string, use this as a tags/property match filter to select only a subset of the headlines in the scope set by the `:id` parameter.

### ‘`:hlines`’

When `t`, insert an hline after every line. When a number N, insert an hline before each headline with level `<= N`.

### ‘`:vlines`’

When non-`nil`, force column groups to get vertical lines.

### ‘`:maxlevel`’

When set to a number, do not capture entries below this level.

### ‘`:skip-empty-rows`’

When non-`nil`, skip rows where the only non-empty specifier of the column view is ‘`ITEM`’.

### ‘`:exclude-tags`’

List of tags to exclude from column view table: entries with these tags will be excluded from the column view.

### ‘`:indent`’

When non-`nil`, indent each ‘`ITEM`’ field according to its level.

### ‘`:format`’

Specify a column attribute (see [Column attributes](/docs/org/Column-attributes)) for the dynamic block.

The following commands insert or update the dynamic block:

### `org-columns-insert-dblock`

Insert a dynamic block capturing a column view. Prompt for the scope or ID of the view.

This command can be invoked by calling `org-dynamic-block-insert-dblock` (`C-c C-x x`) and selecting “columnview" (see [Dynamic Blocks](/docs/org/Dynamic-Blocks)).

### `C-c C-c` `C-c C-x C-u` (`org-dblock-update`)

Update dynamic block at point. point needs to be in the ‘`#+BEGIN`’ line of the dynamic block.

### `C-u C-c C-x C-u` (`org-update-all-dblocks`)

Update all dynamic blocks (see [Dynamic Blocks](/docs/org/Dynamic-Blocks)). This is useful if you have several clock table blocks, column-capturing blocks or other dynamic blocks in a buffer.

You can add formulas to the column view table and you may add plotting instructions in front of the table—these survive an update of the block. If there is a ‘`TBLFM`’ keyword after the table, the table is recalculated automatically after an update.

An alternative way to capture and process property values into a table is provided by Eric Schulte’s ‘`org-collector.el`’, which is a contributed package[^1]. It provides a general API to collect properties from entries in a certain scope, and arbitrary Lisp expressions to process these values before inserting them into a table or a dynamic block.

[^1]: Contributed packages are not part of Emacs, but are distributed with the main distribution of Org—visit [https://orgmode.org](https://orgmode.org/).
