---
slug: Timestamps
---

A timestamp is a specification of a date (possibly with a time or a range of times) in a special format, either ‘`<2003-09-16 Tue>`’ or ‘`<2003-09-16 Tue 09:39>`’ or ‘`<2003-09-16 Tue 12:00-12:30>`’[^1]. A timestamp can appear anywhere in the headline or body of an Org tree entry. Its presence causes entries to be shown on specific dates in the agenda (see [Weekly/daily agenda](Weekly_002fdaily-agenda)). We distinguish:

### Plain timestamp; Event; Appointment

A simple timestamp just assigns a date/time to an item. This is just like writing down an appointment or event in a paper agenda. In the agenda display, the headline of an entry associated with a plain timestamp is shown exactly on that date.

```lisp
* Meet Peter at the movies
  <2006-11-01 Wed 19:15>
* Discussion on climate change
  <2006-11-02 Thu 20:00-22:00>
```

### Timestamp with repeater interval

A timestamp may contain a *repeater interval*, indicating that it applies not only on the given date, but again and again after a certain interval of N days (d), weeks (w), months (m), or years (y). The following shows up in the agenda every Wednesday:

```lisp
* Pick up Sam at school
  <2007-05-16 Wed 12:30 +1w>
```

### Diary-style expression entries

For more complex date specifications, Org mode supports using the special expression diary entries implemented in the Emacs Calendar package[^2]. For example, with optional time:

```lisp
* 22:00-23:00 The nerd meeting on every 2nd Thursday of the month
  <%%(diary-float t 4 2)>
```

### Time/Date range

Two timestamps connected by ‘`--`’ denote a range. The headline is shown on the first and last day of the range, and on any dates that are displayed and fall in the range. Here is an example:

```lisp
** Meeting in Amsterdam
   <2004-08-23 Mon>--<2004-08-26 Thu>
```

### Inactive timestamp

Just like a plain timestamp, but with square brackets instead of angular ones. These timestamps are inactive in the sense that they do *not* trigger an entry to show up in the agenda.

```lisp
* Gillian comes late for the fifth time
  [2006-11-01 Wed]
```

[^1]: The Org date format is inspired by the standard ISO 8601 date/time format. To use an alternative format, see [Custom time format](Custom-time-format). The day name is optional when you type the date yourself. However, any date inserted or modified by Org adds that day name, for reading convenience.

[^2]: When working with the standard diary expression functions, you need to be very careful with the order of the arguments. That order depends evilly on the variable `calendar-date-style`. For example, to specify a date December 12, 2005, the call might look like ‘`(diary-date 12 1 2005)`’ or ‘`(diary-date 1 12 2005)`’ or ‘`(diary-date 2005 12 1)`’, depending on the settings. This has been the source of much confusion. Org mode users can resort to special versions of these functions like `org-date` or `org-anniversary`. These work just like the corresponding `diary-` functions, but with stable ISO order of arguments (year, month, day) wherever applicable, independent of the value of `calendar-date-style`.
