---
slug: Creating-Timestamps
---

For Org mode to recognize timestamps, they need to be in the specific format. All commands listed below produce timestamps in the correct format.

### `C-c .` (`org-time-stamp`)

Prompt for a date and insert a corresponding timestamp. When point is at an existing timestamp in the buffer, the command is used to modify this timestamp instead of inserting a new one. When this command is used twice in succession, a time range is inserted.

When called with a prefix argument, use the alternative format which contains date and time. The default time can be rounded to multiples of 5 minutes. See the option `org-time-stamp-rounding-minutes`.

With two prefix arguments, insert an active timestamp with the current time without prompting.

### `C-c !` (`org-time-stamp-inactive`)

Like `C-c .`, but insert an inactive timestamp that does not cause an agenda entry.

### `C-c C-c`

Normalize timestamp, insert or fix day name if missing or wrong.

### `C-c <` (`org-date-from-calendar`)

Insert a timestamp corresponding to point date in the calendar.

### `C-c >` (`org-goto-calendar`)

Access the Emacs calendar for the current date. If there is a timestamp in the current line, go to the corresponding date instead.

### `C-c C-o` (`org-open-at-point`)

Access the agenda for the date given by the timestamp or -range at point (see [Weekly/daily agenda](/docs/org/Weekly_002fdaily-agenda)).

### `S-LEFT` (`org-timestamp-down-day`)

### `S-RIGHT` (`org-timestamp-up-day`)

Change date at point by one day. These key bindings conflict with shift-selection and related modes (see [Conflicts](/docs/org/Conflicts)).

### `S-UP` (`org-timestamp-up`)

### `S-DOWN` (`org-timestamp-down`)

On the beginning or enclosing bracket of a timestamp, change its type. Within a timestamp, change the item under point. Point can be on a year, month, day, hour or minute. When the timestamp contains a time range like ‘`15:30-16:30`’, modifying the first time also shifts the second, shifting the time block with constant length. To change the length, modify the second time. Note that if point is in a headline and not at a timestamp, these same keys modify the priority of an item (see [Priorities](/docs/org/Priorities)). The key bindings also conflict with shift-selection and related modes (see [Conflicts](/docs/org/Conflicts)).

### `C-c C-y` (`org-evaluate-time-range`)

Evaluate a time range by computing the difference between start and end. With a prefix argument, insert result after the time range (in a table: into the following column).

|                                                              |    |                                               |
| :----------------------------------------------------------- | -- | :-------------------------------------------- |
| • [The date/time prompt](/docs/org/The-date_002ftime-prompt) |    | How Org mode helps you enter dates and times. |
| • [Custom time format](/docs/org/Custom-time-format)         |    | Making dates look different.                  |
