---
slug: Inserting-deadline_002fschedule
---

The following commands allow you to quickly insert a deadline or to schedule an item:[^1]

### `C-c C-d` (`org-deadline`)

Insert ‘`DEADLINE`’ keyword along with a stamp. The insertion happens in the line directly following the headline. Remove any ‘`CLOSED`’ timestamp . When called with a prefix argument, also remove any existing deadline from the entry. Depending on the variable `org-log-redeadline`, take a note when changing an existing deadline[^2].

### `C-c C-s` (`org-schedule`)

Insert ‘`SCHEDULED`’ keyword along with a stamp. The insertion happens in the line directly following the headline. Remove any ‘`CLOSED`’ timestamp. When called with a prefix argument, also remove the scheduling date from the entry. Depending on the variable `org-log-reschedule`, take a note when changing an existing scheduling time[^3].

### `C-c / d` (`org-check-deadlines`)

Create a sparse tree with all deadlines that are either past-due, or which will become due within `org-deadline-warning-days`. With `C-u` prefix, show all deadlines in the file. With a numeric prefix, check that many days. For example, `C-1 C-c / d` shows all deadlines due tomorrow.

### `C-c / b` (`org-check-before-date`)

Sparse tree for deadlines and scheduled items before a given date.

### `C-c / a` (`org-check-after-date`)

Sparse tree for deadlines and scheduled items after a given date.

Note that `org-schedule` and `org-deadline` supports setting the date by indicating a relative time e.g., ‘`+1d`’ sets the date to the next day after today, and ‘`--1w`’ sets the date to the previous week before any current timestamp.

[^1]: The ‘`SCHEDULED`’ and ‘`DEADLINE`’ dates are inserted on the line right below the headline. Do not put any text between this line and the headline.

[^2]: Note the corresponding ‘`STARTUP`’ options ‘`logredeadline`’, ‘`lognoteredeadline`’, and ‘`nologredeadline`’.

[^3]: Note the corresponding ‘`STARTUP`’ options ‘`logreschedule`’, ‘`lognotereschedule`’, and ‘`nologreschedule`’.
