---
slug: The-clock-table
---

Org mode can produce quite complex reports based on the time clocking information. Such a report is called a *clock table*, because it is formatted as one or several Org tables.

### `org-clock-report`

Insert or update a clock table. When called with a prefix argument, jump to the first clock table in the current document and update it. The clock table includes archived trees.

This command can be invoked by calling `org-dynamic-block-insert-dblock` (`C-c C-x x`) and selecting “clocktable" (see [Dynamic Blocks](Dynamic-Blocks)).

### `C-c C-c` or `C-c C-x C-u` (`org-dblock-update`)

Update dynamic block at point. Point needs to be in the ‘`BEGIN`’ line of the dynamic block.

### `C-u C-c C-x C-u`

Update all dynamic blocks (see [Dynamic Blocks](Dynamic-Blocks)). This is useful if you have several clock table blocks in a buffer.

### `S-LEFT`

### `S-RIGHT` (`org-clocktable-try-shift`)

Shift the current ‘`:block`’ interval and update the table. Point needs to be in the ‘`#+BEGIN: clocktable`’ line for this command. If ‘`:block`’ is ‘`today`’, it is shifted to ‘`today-1`’, etc.

Here is an example of the frame for a clock table as it is inserted into the buffer by `org-clock-report`:

```lisp
#+BEGIN: clocktable :maxlevel 2 :emphasize nil :scope file
#+END: clocktable
```

The ‘`#+BEGIN`’ line contains options to define the scope, structure, and formatting of the report. Defaults for all these options can be configured in the variable `org-clocktable-defaults`.

First there are options that determine which clock entries are to be selected:

### ‘`:maxlevel`’

Maximum level depth to which times are listed in the table. Clocks at deeper levels are summed into the upper level.

### ‘`:scope`’

The scope to consider. This can be any of the following:

|                          |                                                            |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| ‘`nil`’                  | the current buffer or narrowed region                      |
| ‘`file`’                 | the full current buffer                                    |
| ‘`subtree`’              | the subtree where the clocktable is located                |
| ‘`treeN`’                | the surrounding level N tree, for example ‘`tree3`’        |
| ‘`tree`’                 | the surrounding level 1 tree                               |
| ‘`agenda`’               | all agenda files                                           |
| ‘`("file" ...)`’         | scan these files                                           |
| ‘`FUNCTION`’             | scan files returned by calling `FUNCTION` with no argument |
| ‘`file-with-archives`’   | current file and its archives                              |
| ‘`agenda-with-archives`’ | all agenda files, including archives                       |

### ‘`:block`’

The time block to consider. This block is specified either absolutely, or relative to the current time and may be any of these formats:

|                                               |                       |
| --------------------------------------------- | --------------------- |
| ‘`2007-12-31`’                                | New year eve 2007     |
| ‘`2007-12`’                                   | December 2007         |
| ‘`2007-W50`’                                  | ISO-week 50 in 2007   |
| ‘`2007-Q2`’                                   | 2nd quarter in 2007   |
| ‘`2007`’                                      | the year 2007         |
| ‘`today`’, ‘`yesterday`’, ‘`today-N`’         | a relative day        |
| ‘`thisweek`’, ‘`lastweek`’, ‘`thisweek-N`’    | a relative week       |
| ‘`thismonth`’, ‘`lastmonth`’, ‘`thismonth-N`’ | a relative month      |
| ‘`thisyear`’, ‘`lastyear`’, ‘`thisyear-N`’    | a relative year       |
| ‘`untilnow`’[^1]                              | all clocked time ever |

When this option is not set, Org falls back to the value in `org-clock-display-default-range`, which defaults to the current year.

Use `S-LEFT` or `S-RIGHT` to shift the time interval.

### ‘`:tstart`’

A time string specifying when to start considering times. Relative times like ‘`"<-2w>"`’ can also be used. See [Matching tags and properties](Matching-tags-and-properties) for relative time syntax.

### ‘`:tend`’

A time string specifying when to stop considering times. Relative times like ‘`"<now>"`’ can also be used. See [Matching tags and properties](Matching-tags-and-properties) for relative time syntax.

### ‘`:wstart`’

The starting day of the week. The default is 1 for Monday.

### ‘`:mstart`’

The starting day of the month. The default is 1 for the first.

### ‘`:step`’

Set to ‘`day`’, ‘`week`’, ‘`semimonth`’, ‘`month`’, or ‘`year`’ to split the table into chunks. To use this, either ‘`:block`’, or ‘`:tstart`’ and ‘`:tend`’ are required.

### ‘`:stepskip0`’

When non-`nil`, do not show steps that have zero time.

### ‘`:fileskip0`’

When non-`nil`, do not show table sections from files which did not contribute.

### ‘`:match`’

A tags match to select entries that should contribute. See [Matching tags and properties](Matching-tags-and-properties) for the match syntax.

Then there are options that determine the formatting of the table. There options are interpreted by the function `org-clocktable-write-default`, but you can specify your own function using the ‘`:formatter`’ parameter.

### ‘`:emphasize`’

When non-`nil`, emphasize level one and level two items.

### ‘`:lang`’

Language[^2] to use for descriptive cells like “Task".

### ‘`:link`’

Link the item headlines in the table to their origins.

### ‘`:narrow`’

An integer to limit the width of the headline column in the Org table. If you write it like ‘`50!`’, then the headline is also shortened in export.

### ‘`:indent`’

Indent each headline field according to its level.

### ‘`:hidefiles`’

Hide the file column when multiple files are used to produce the table.

### ‘`:tcolumns`’

Number of columns to be used for times. If this is smaller than ‘`:maxlevel`’, lower levels are lumped into one column.

### ‘`:level`’

Should a level number column be included?

### ‘`:sort`’

A cons cell containing the column to sort and a sorting type. E.g., ‘`:sort (1 . ?a)`’ sorts the first column alphabetically.

### ‘`:compact`’

Abbreviation for ‘`:level nil :indent t :narrow 40! :tcolumns 1`’. All are overwritten except if there is an explicit ‘`:narrow`’.

### ‘`:timestamp`’

A timestamp for the entry, when available. Look for ‘`SCHEDULED`’, ‘`DEADLINE`’, ‘`TIMESTAMP`’ and ‘`TIMESTAMP_IA`’ special properties (see [Special Properties](Special-Properties)), in this order.

### ‘`:tags`’

When this flag is non-`nil`, show the headline’s tags.

### ‘`:properties`’

List of properties shown in the table. Each property gets its own column.

### ‘`:inherit-props`’

When this flag is non-`nil`, the values for ‘`:properties`’ are inherited.

### ‘`:formula`’

Content of a ‘`TBLFM`’ keyword to be added and evaluated. As a special case, ‘`:formula %`’ adds a column with % time. If you do not specify a formula here, any existing formula below the clock table survives updates and is evaluated.

### ‘`:formatter`’

A function to format clock data and insert it into the buffer.

To get a clock summary of the current level 1 tree, for the current day, you could write:

```lisp
#+BEGIN: clocktable :maxlevel 2 :block today :scope tree1 :link t
#+END: clocktable
```

To use a specific time range you could write[^3]

```lisp
#+BEGIN: clocktable :tstart "<2006-08-10 Thu 10:00>"
                    :tend "<2006-08-10 Thu 12:00>"
#+END: clocktable
```

A range starting a week ago and ending right now could be written as

```lisp
#+BEGIN: clocktable :tstart "<-1w>" :tend "<now>"
#+END: clocktable
```

A summary of the current subtree with % times would be

```lisp
#+BEGIN: clocktable :scope subtree :link t :formula %
#+END: clocktable
```

A horizontally compact representation of everything clocked during last week would be

```lisp
#+BEGIN: clocktable :scope agenda :block lastweek :compact t
#+END: clocktable
```

[^1]: When using `:step`, `untilnow` starts from the beginning of 2003, not the beginning of time.

[^2]: Language terms can be set through the variable `org-clock-clocktable-language-setup`.

[^3]: Note that all parameters must be specified in a single line—the line is broken here only to fit it into the manual.
